By Fred Ezeh It was a memorable day for hundreds of physically-challenged persons in Abuja as they they were feted and handed relief materials at a colourful event in Abuja. The event was packaged by the foundation of the National. Organizing secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) Sen. Osita Izunaso. Known as Kpakpando Foundation, the organizers which have been holding the event in the last 12 years, restored smiles to the lips of the physically challenged. The Foundation visits the disability camp with essential food and non food items to assist them live comfortably in a society where the fittest could barely survive. This year, little above 1, 000 different relief items  were distributed to selected few from across Nigeria. They include crutches, motorised wheel chairs, generators, grinding, sewing, braille machines; tricycles and several other items that are helpful to the socio-economic life of these set of people. As part of event to mark the 12 anniversary of the Foundation, an elaborate ceremony was held at the prestigious International Conference Center, Abuja, last week, to formally present the items to them. The founder, Senator Izunaso, used his goodwill to attract governors, Senators, senior official of the All Progressive Congress (APC) led by the National Chairman, John Oyegun, music and nollywood stars who came to share in joy of the Foundation and the beneficiaries. The Imo state born politician who founded Kpakpando Foundation 12 years ago in Owerri, told the gathering that it was born out of the desire to give hope to disabled persons who are depressed by virtue of the discrimination they receive from the society. He expressed his worry that over 25 million persons in Nigeria that have one form of disability or another rarely receive attention from government, corporate organizations and philanthropists. He appealed to them to expand their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) net to accommodate these people thus leaving them sense and feel of love. He however commended the leadership of the National Assembly for the accelerated attention it gave to disability bill, with a promise that he will convince President Muhammadu Buhari, to assent to it speedily. He also encouraged the people to keep their dreams and aspirations alive, as Kpakpando Foundation will be there to support them achieve whatever goal they have for themselves. Senator Izunaso exposed them to opportunities abound in politics and encouraged them to warm up for the next general elections, taking advantage of their large electoral number. He promised to compel his political party to give free nomination forms to disabled persons that will indicate interest in any elective position in 2019. The National President, Joint Persons with Disability, Ekaete Umo, described Senator Izunaso as an outstanding Nigerian who desires the best for people with disability. She encouraged other philanthropists to emulate the lawmaker so that the plight of disable people could be addressed. Meanwhile, Nasarawa state governor, Tanko Al-Makura, who admitted being one of them, thanked the Imo state born politician for his kindness to the people, which has restored their smiles and hope. 