The Chief Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia, Abia State, Dr. Abali Chuku, has admonished contractors wishing to work for the centre to deliver quality and durable jobs/services. He gave this charge through the Head of Administration, FMC, Umuahia, while welcoming companies that submitted tender documents for this year’s capital projects, as advertised in Daily Sun of Monday 22, July 2017, for the procurement/supply of goods, works and services. He appreciated the companies for their resilience and reminded them that the centre, under the present CMD was poised to leave legacies worthy of emulation and commendation. About 30 registered companies submitted bid documents, including Fidson Health Care Plc, Innoson Vehicle Co Limited, Rosy and Sam International Limited, Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, Ground Zero Engineering Limited and Tempotoy Tom Top Nigeria Limited etc. While addressing representatives of these companies, during the technical bid opening, the Head of Administration said rules and regulations guiding the award of contracts, as stipulated by law, would be strictly adhered to. He advised the companies to cooperate with management of the centre, with a view to having a free and fair participation devoid of rancor. On his part, the Head of Procurement, Ogbonnaya Ubendu, while unveiling technical documents submitted by the companies, stressed the need for appropriate packaging of bid documents, as, according to him,  it will help boost the company’s chances of winning such contracts. After the technical bid opening, a total of 16 companies made it to the second phase. Throwing more light on why some companies were not invited for the financial bid opening, Ubendu said they were disqualified based on technical flaws and inability to meet up with the standard required regarding job experience. At the opening of the financial bid, the head of procurement explained that management of the centre took into consideration “the tension in the state capital Umuahia, between IPOB and the military,” which accounted for the earlier postponement.