 By CHRISTY ANYANWU Chioma Omeruah, alias Chigul is the second child and first daughter of Air Commodore Samson Emeka Omeruah, former military governor of old Anambra State and former Minister of Sports. She is an all round entertainer, comedian, singer and actress. She did a voice note in 2009 with the character Chigul singing a crazy song and it went viral. In this interview, the Daleware University, USA, graduate of French Education talks about her firsts. First day on stage It was amazing, I was literally floating; it was as if I was walking on air. It was at an event organized by Basket Mouth in 2009 or 2010. I was never shy. Shy? Mba! I tried to fake the shyness, it didn’t work. I get butterflies, in anticipation, not that I am shy. If you actually see me in a shy mood you know that it is fake.  First embarrassment? They are so many. I can’t remember. I just consider it as one of those things. I don’t like anything to affect me like that. I try not to. Maybe you would see your picture on the internet and somebody would make a nasty comment sometimes, I just let it go. First million? I don’t remember. That was some years ago. It didn’t come from one thing. Okay, I remember, I had my first million from one event. The fact that I got paid for what I do was amazing enough. First car? I can’t tell you. I don’t want to talk about it. It’s a nice car, cool but I don’t want to say anything about it. First trip abroad? I think I was 11 years old. I travelled with my parents. My dad and my mum, we went to London, Israel and Rome. Then, whenever any of us passed common entrance my father would give you a gift. The trip was my gift. First pet? I had cat a long time ago when I was younger. I named it Tiger. My mum didn’t like cats and Tiger died while I was away. First designer outfit? A designer friend of mine based in Abuja made it for me, free-of-charge. Her label is ‘Design.’ I wore it for my first show.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 