From Joe Effiong, Uyo,  The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Oyegun and other leaders of the party on Saturday brought Uyo to a standstill as they stormed the city to  flag-off  the party’s campaigns ahead of the December 2  local government elections in Akwa Ibom. Among those who accompanied Oyegun to the rally held at Uyo Township stadium included the Chairman of the APC Governors Forum and Governor of Imo state, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, deputy national chairman (Southwest), Mr. Segun Oni, Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters(Senate), Senator Ita Enang. Others were the Managing Director/CEO Niger Delta Development  Commission (NDDC), Mr. Nsima Ekere, the Managing Director/CEO of Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone Authority(OGFTZA), Obong Umana Okon Umana, Senator Representing  Eket  Senatorial District, Chief Nelson Effiong, Chief Don Etiebet and the deputy national chairman(South-South), Mr. Hilliard Ettah among others. Chief Oyegun, who was overwhelmed by the crowd that turned up for the rally  said the impressive turn-out at the event was a manifestation of the readiness of the people to unseat the PDP administration of Governor Udom Emmanuel in 2019. He said the council polls would serve as a test case for the APC, adding that the large turn-out of teeming supporters at the event was a testimony to the fact that Akwa Ibom people were in support of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He also commended the president for his efforts geared towards building a new Nigeria, salvaging the economy from recession, fighting corruption head-long and providing job and  empowerment opportunities for the teeming youths of the country. Senior Special Adviser to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang and the MD/CEO of the NDDC, Mr. Nsima Ekere disclosed that there were plans by the PDP in the state to rig the elections. Ekere said he is aware that the PDP has perfected to connive with AKISIEC to stop results from being announced at collation centres, and warned that the APC will resist every attempt to rig the election. He however expressed confidence that the APC would record massive victory in the December 2 local government elections across the 329 wards and 31 local government areas of the state. Other stakeholders who took turns to speak also warned that there would be dire consequences should the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) government in the  state connive with the Akwa Ibom State Independent Electoral Commission (AKISIEC) to rig the elections. 