From: Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin-City Operatives of Zone 5 Police Headquarters in Benin-City, Edo State, on Monday, said it has arrested a car theft syndicate, one Garrette Sunday, who allegedly specialised in registering and issuing fake vehicle documents to suspected stolen vehicles in Agbor, Delta State. Zonal Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Emeka Iheanacho, made this known to newsmen in Benin-City. He said the men of the operatives acted on credible intelligence and swung into action and arrested the suspect in his hideout. DSP Iheanacho said that the suspect was arrested following his involvement in registering and issuance of fake   vehicles documents to several stolen vehicles at his private resident in Agbor, Delta State. He also said that sometime in September 2017, men of the Operatives while acting on intelligence burst at some car dealers in Agbor who specialized in stolen vehicles and in the process eight (8) exotic cars suspected to be stolen were impounded adding that the car dealer has absconded to unknown destination till date. The Zonal Police Public Relations Officer said in the course to unravel the true owners of these vehicles and circumstances surrounding It, the Operatives visited some motor licensing offices in Benin, Agbor and Yenagoa where the information about the vehicles appeared to be fake . Sequel to this, the Operatives Intensified manhunt of the criminals by adopting   technical intelligence which resulted to the arrest of one Garrette Sunday in Agbor Delta state. He said during the execution of search warrant on the resident and premises of the suspect, the following items were recovered: booklets of Insurance Certificate property of Prestige Assurance Nigeria Ltd, Booklets of Roadworthiness certificate property of Edo State Ministry of Transport, Hackney carriage permit booklets also property of Edo State Ministry of Transport, General Motor receipts of various states, stenographic Laser type writing machine, Forged third party insurance stamp for policy authentication and seal marker for attestation of genuineness. Meanwhile, the suspect has confessed to the crime and has been helping the security operatives in the investigation. He said the suspect would be charged to court as soon as investigations were concluded. The Police, however, cautioned members of the public to be wary of these criminal elements and ensure they register their vehicles at the appropriate licensing offices. 