From: Ben Dunno, Warri Security agents in the country have been charged to emulate the unusual quality of dedication to service so far exhibited by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) at the Warri B Division of the Delta state police command, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Aniette Eyo. Giving the charge, over the weekend, the Group Human Resources Manager at Lee Engineering Construction Company Limited, Olusina David, who spoke while delivering a donation of 30 KV generator to the new ultra-mordern Warri B Division station, said his organisation always feels moved to assist the police station because of the unusual quality of the DPO. According to David, Lee Engineering and its Executive Chairman, Dr/ Leemon Ikpea, had been impressed with the police station since Eyo resumed as its DPO and came up with the very rare idea of setting up CCTV cameras for community policing as well as rebuilding the old police station into an ultra-modern model. “We have chosen the B Division, because of the officer in charge. He has an indefatigable spirit, he’s committed to success. He came in here and saw the make a difference and he started making baby steps that we now see today. “Our first point of interaction with him showed that he’s somebody that ought to be supported and like I said a while ago, he embraces virtues that Lee Engineering identifies with; integrity, ability to make a difference to positive change in the environment. “My boss, the Executive Chairman, Dr Leemon Ikpea, personally made donations to the Officers’ Mess you see there. When we came here less than two years ago, everything we saw here were very derelict buildings, everything was in tatters. “The first thing we saw him do then, that was quite unusual in the Niger Delta, was to set up CCTV cameras for community policing and that caught our attention that he was ready to embrace technology and do the unusual alone. That got our CEO’s attention and he supported him and he’s delivered. He is someone that ought to be encouraged and he’s gotten the attention of Lee Engineering and we are responding as a responsible corporate organization”, David said. Responding to the gesture, CSP Eyo expressed delight to the magnanimity of the company, thanked the representatives, promising to deliver the message to the state’s Commissioner of Police Zanna Ibrahim, pleading that the company should not stop its kindness towards his station with the presentation of the generator. “The promise I can give to you right now is that we have the zeal, determination, focus, political will and all those characteristics that can boost our moral, to make us succeed and by your gesture, it means we’ll definitely have 24 hours of power supply because a company has just donated inverter and inverter batteries, we are only waiting for the solar panels to come. “On behalf of my Commissioner of Police, I will say thank you very much. I will convey this donation to my Commissioner of Police, I will inform him accordingly and tell him that your company has been assisting us greatly. I also want to plead that you should not let the mindset of the company towards us end here”, Eyo pleaded. 