From: Wole Balogun, Ado-Ekiti Academic activities have been crippled at the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti, as angry staff of the institution are protesting unpaid eight month arrears of their salaries. Daily Sun gathered that the protest which started, on Monday, continued till Wednesday, as the angry workers chanted solidarity songs and barricaded the college’s main gate for two days running. The protest was led by members of the Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) but was joined by members of the College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU). The workers accused the Provost, Prof. Mojisola Oyarekua, of allegedly ‘sitting’ on their three months salaries they claimed was released by the state government to offset part of the arrears. The protest, on Wednesday, lasted for about three hours during which the workers prevented vehicles from going in and coming out of the campus. Some of the workers clashed with policemen during the Monday’s protest. While the protesters allowed students into the campus, no worker was allowed access in an out. The action has disrupted the second semester examination that was supposed to start on Monday. Speaking with reporters during the protest, NASU Secretary, Mr. Wale Animasaun, said the decision to carry out the action was reached at a congress held last Wednesday in which the college management was given up till last Friday to pay their salaries or face a mass action.  Animasaun clarified that the protest was not against the government of Governor Ayo Fayose but against the college management led by Oyarekua. He said: “The governor has released three months out of the salary arrears owed us but the college management has refused to pay us. They used to give us net pay but they have even refused to pay anything. “This is despite the fact that they are generating revenue from other sources like the N2,500 each candidate pays as post-UTME fee, reparation fee students paid by all students during the last riot and other miscellaneous fees. “We workers of College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti are suffering and we will not allow anybody no matter how highly placed to deny us of our legitimate rights. “This protest will continue until our demands are met, the exam that supposed to start on Monday will be on hold and we want to plead with students to show understanding with us.” But the Provost, Mrs. Oyarekua, denied receipt of three months salaries from the state government maintaining that the college authorities had not received any subvention from the state government. She said: “The allegation (of holding on to three month salaries) is not true. In fact, I am embarrassed by the allegation because we have not got any subvention from the government. “A particular union is behind the latest crisis in the college; people are free to go and verify from the office of the Accountant General on the situation of things. We have not got any subvention from the government.” 