From: FRED ITUA, Abuja Hundreds of supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari, under the aegis of Coalition for Peace and Stability, on Tuesday, paralysed commercial activities at the popular Wuse Market, in Abuja, following what they described as the success recorded by the Federal Government in its fight against terrorism in the country. This came on a day that a teenage suicide bomber blew up a mosque in Mubi, Adamawa State, killing over 50 people. Members of coalition, who marched from Wuse Market to the Presidential Villla, likened President Buhari to the biblical David, who has succeeded in conquering terrorism in the entity called Nigeria. National coordinator of the group, Abdulmumini Tijani, who spoke on behalf of others, called on the Nigerian military to do all within it powers to finish off the remnants of Boko Haram in the shortest time so that Nigeria would be in a position to celebrate total freedom from the blood-thirsty terrors. Tijani said: “The Institute for Economics and Peace has however auspiciously accelerated our achievement of this objective when it released the Global Terrorism Index 2017. From what is in the news about the report, it shows that the number of those killed in terror attacks have reduced by 80%. What we understand by this is that eight out of every ten persons that Boko Haram or other terrorists would have killed are alive. “For us the Coalition for Peace and Stability, this is a testimony that President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to fulfilling his campaign promise of restoring security in the country. It is remarkable that keeping this promise has international impact because the global terrorism related deaths fell since the figures for Nigeria dropped. It is our earnest hope that this international impact will translate into positive gains like restored investors’ interest in Nigeria. “We also expect that those supporting evil by providing sustenance to Boko Haram will see this report as reason to cut off the lifeline they provide to terrorists. Human life is precious and sacred and nothing should be done to cut it short for whatsoever reason. “Our coalition not only congratulates President Buhari on this positive report but also commend Mr President for this achievement considering that most of the efforts that have gone into degrading and defeating Boko Haram are homegrown. The President was able to achieve the improvement in terrorism ranking without going cap in hand to beg for foreign intervention. “We also commend the Nigerian Army under the leadership it the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai, who leads a military to be proud of. Soldiers under his command continue to perform no mean feats even with funding constraints, harassment from international NGOs and blockade of weapons supply by some interested countries.” At the time of filing the report, an official representative of the President was yet to receive the group as Buhari was said to be in a meeting with two other Presidents who were visiting at the time.