France on Tuesday said it wanted the United Nations Security Council to consider imposing targeted sanctions against human traffickers operating in Libya after a video appearing to show African migrants sold as slaves sparked global outrage. Several members of the 15-member Security Council expressed their horror at the video during a meeting, requested by France, to discuss human trafficking in Libya. The footage broadcast earlier this month by CNN showed what it said was an auction of men to Libyan buyers as farmhands and sold for 400 dollars each. “France will propose to assist the sanctions committee in identifying responsible individuals and entities for trafficking through Libyan territory. “We count upon support of the members of the council to make headway to that end,’’ Delattre told the council. Report says under a sanctions regime set up in 2011, the Security Council is able to impose a global asset freeze and travel ban on individuals and entities involved in or complicit in ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing. According to Delattre, France can propose names for targeted UN sanctions but needs to win consensus support within the Security Council’s 15-member Libya sanctions committee. Some council members expressed support for the possibility of imposing targeted sanctions, while others backed the council first issuing a statement. Diplomats said France, Britain and Sweden were drafting a statement. “We all have a responsibility to act. This is not the moment to pass the buck,” Sweden’s Deputy UN Amb. Carl Skau said. Libya descended into chaos after a NATO-backed uprising in 2011 led to the overthrow and killing of leader Muammar Gaddafi, with two competing governments backed by militias scrambling for control of the oil-producing country. Islamic State militants have also gained a foothold in the North African state. People smugglers operating with impunity in Libya have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to Europe, mainly Italy, by sea since 2014. It said that thousands had died during the voyages. The Security Council recently adopted an Italian-drafted resolution urging tougher action to crack down on human trafficking and modern slavery worldwide. (Source: Reuters/NAN)