From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has expressed concern that members of the opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), were still holding juicy positions in President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Okorocha, who spoke to newsmen on arrival at the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC), during the party’s recent National Executive Committee (NEC) also noted that if he were in President Buhari’s position, he would not have waited this long to rejig the cabinet and constitute board for parastals and agencies. Corroborating the recent outburst by the Controller-General of the Nigerian Customs Services, Col. Hameed Ali (retd), that the PDP had hijacked the Buhari government, the Imo governor argued that though the Custom boss may have exaggerated the number, what was incontrovertible is that PDP members were really enjoying the government more than the APC members. Okorocha said: “It is not that 50 per cent of PDP are running this government alone, but that PDP members are holding major plum jobs in the country which if it were PDP government, they won’t have allowed. They are getting fattened as a result and ready to fight us. “Remember, your political enemy can never love you politically. So, we must address issues and make sure that we settle our party men to make sure that APC people hold great positions in boards and others to give them confidence and sense of belonging. That is what we are asking for.” While reacting to the demand by some APC supporters that President Buhari should dissolve his cabinet to accommodate some aggrieved members of the party, Governor Okorocha said: “Well, I heard of it that we need to rejig the entire system to give confidence to people, release the board list, make people happy and get things working. “But you know Mr. President has his own style, that is not my own style. My style would have been to rejig and move on, but his style would be to take things easy, slowly and get there, which is working for him.” 