By Christy Anyanwu The 1967 Class of the Government College Umuahia (GCU) has commenced preparations for the 88th anniversary of the establishment of the school and 2017 Homecoming of their set which will take place between November17-18,2017. According to a statement by the Class Captain of the 1967 set, Dr. Chinedum Ahaiwe, the celebrations on  GCU: Yesterday , Today, and Tommorow’, will have the former Minister of Power, Prof.Chinedu Nebo as the guest speaker. Ahaiwe further revealed that there will be a Gala night and presentation of awards to principals and tutors who served in the school during the period members of the 1967 set were students. He added that the event will be spectacular because the civil war that started in 1967 disrupted their education and yet the set came out in flying colours in school certificate exam. “This is our 50th year of our admission into the school and it’s so memorable because we enrolled, and after few months the war started and we all left. When we came back after the war in 1970 we were promoted to class two and some of us the next year and 1972, did school certificate  within two and half years and most of them had grade 1. In the history of the college our class set a record and that’s why we are actually celebrating this golden jubilee in a memorable way”. He also revealed that the golden jubilee will bring back all old students from within Nigeria and abroad. It includes the former Abia State governor, Orji Uzor Kalu, who also is an Old Boy and so many distinguish personalities are also expected to grace the occasion. Ahaiwe stressed that the school has produced many famous and great men who have distinguished themselves including SenatorSoni Ogborji, representing Ebonyi South district in the Senate. For the older generation, the school also boast of famous writer, Prof. Chinua Achebe, 1943, Prof Ben Ewuonwu, 1932, Gabriel Okara, 1937, Chris Okigbo 1946, Chike Momah 1944, Prof Chukwuemeka Ike, 1945, Capt. Elechi Amadi, 1945, N.C Aniebo 1952, Late Ken Saro- Wiwa 1964, Prof. Laz Ekwueme 1948 and host of others. According to him, Dr. Enelama an old boy of the school is special guest, former Governor Achike Udenwa and some governors are expected to grace the occasion The National President of Government College Old Boys Association, Dan Nzenwa said the occasion will also be used to raise fund for the college.” The old boys are now managing the college through the Fisher Educational Development Trust. We are all busy, mobilizing funds to start real construction in the next few weeks. Already, we have drawn a master plan of the college, we have a certificate of occupancy of our property which is about 90 acres of land.