From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has warned that there will be no room for corrupt individuals in his government. Obiano handed down the warning at a meeting with top state government officials. The governor said he would not blink an eye in throwing out any official engaging in fraudulent practice. “There is no room for any corrupt individual in my government. “Probity and accountability must be ensured, henceforth, in every government transaction.” Consequently, the governor demonstrated his determination to instil a new order in the public service by personally scrutinising and vetting every proposal brought forward for approval by the state’s Tenders Board. Obiano warned commissioners, special advisers and civil servants against actions inimical to the government’s reputation and insisted that anyone involved in any fraudulent act, or corruption in the state, would automatically be dismissed from the workforce. “Any government official found to be involved in any shady deal aimed at corrupt enrichment or diversion of public funds will be shown the way out of Anambra state government.” He reiterated that governance would not be as usual with his re-election and that all public servants in the state, who want to be part of the new revolution, must show a sense of commitment and seriousness. “There will be checks and balances in every aspect of government business now and all loopholes must be completely plugged, to checkmate the activities of those who have, in the past, sabotaged the efforts of government, to give qualitative service to the people of Anambra state.” He made it clear that in his second term, things must change and be done within  the ambit of rules and regulations guiding government business and the civil service. Obiano gave assurances that he would not let the electorate down, having reposed confidence in him by voting massively in the just-concluded governorship election. The governor, however, promised that at the end of his second tenure, Anambra State would have become another Dubai in Nigeria and Africa. Obiano gave assurance that he would not let Anambra State electorate down, having reposed confidence in him by voting massively in the just concluded governorship election. He expressed joy and happiness over the unflinching support given to him during his first tenure by members of the state executive council.