From Chuks Onuoha, Umuahia Since exploration of oil began in the community many years ago, no Obibor citizen has had the opportunity of being part of the decision-making body at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Their lot has been that of environmental degradation and loss of indigenous occupations occasioned by oil exploration. The land has been rendered unproductive by wastes from oil exploration. Over the years, past governments both at the state and the centre never remembered the oil-rich community in Asa, Ukwa West Local Government Area of Abia State. But this was ended recently, when President Muhammadu Buhari appointed Chief Nwogu Nna Nwogu, state Commissioner for NDDC Board in Abia State. The gesture has caused excitement amongst the Obibor people who have vowed to forever remain supportive of the administration, as they said  he is the only leader who has displayed justice and fairness in their affairs. According to the people, the battle for the plum job was fierce and nobody believed that it would be the turn of an Obibor son. They said that even Nwogu was surprised as he was busy presenting other people from the other areas to be considered for the job. Therefore, to show appreciation to the president, the royal fathers, community leaders, men, women and youths of the community trooped to the Umukabia, Ohuhu,Umuahia North LGA of Abia State, country home of Chief Ikechi Emenike, an APC chieftain and Buhari’s ally, to convey their message of gratitude to the president. They arrived at Umukabia in many buses that carried dancing troupes, cultural dancers, supporters and many others who formed a carnival of a sort. The community Chairman, Sir Israel Chinweuba Nwarie, who spoke on behalf of the people, said that they came with a keg of crude oil, palm oil and the Holy Bible, which he said are symbols of respect, humility and prosperity. “We are here to express our heartfelt appreciation for the choice of our son, Nwogu Nna Nwogu as NDDC Commissioner. Holy Bible shows that if you have God you have everything. We want to assure the president that we will serve as mobilisers in 2019.The Obibor people are happy that the president has proved that the change that is being preached at the national level has become real to us in the land of Obibor. He made it possible for what was written in the Bible to be fulfilled in the land of Obibor that Jesus Christ was born in a small village.” The Village Head, Mr. Ozioma Peter, said ordinarily if people were considered for the position of NDDC Commissioner, Obibor people would be the least to be considered in Asa land. “If we start counting from one to 100, nobody would remember Nwogu Nna Nwogu as a candidate. But Buhari has remembered us, God will always remember him. We want to tell you that whenever you need the support of anybody, Obibor people, born and unborn, will be there to give you support. “We are grateful to you, to Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, which has been preaching change. That change has truly come to us,” he stated. Chief Emenike thanked the people, stating that it was a mark of blessing to meet good people in any community. He described the Obibor Community as one that has good people, adding that Nwogu was one of those good people. Oriental News learnt that Nwogu  before he was appointed never believed he was qualified to be in that position which informed his bringing people even from other communities vie for the position. He had believed that the position was for only those with higher qualifications as he holds a Grade Two Certificate which he obtained at Asa High School in 1977. So, when he was asked to stop looking for those that would be appointed, that he has been chosen, he was shocked. 