From: Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Operatives of the Operation Delta Safe (ODS) has arrested five suspected pipeline vandals and killed suspected kidnappers in Bayelsa and Rivers states. Commander of the ODS, Rear Admiral Apochi Ogabu Suleiman, at a press conference, in Yenagoa, said the ODS troops had stepped up efforts to curb the activities suspected vandals leading to the arrest of the five suspects. According to him three of the suspects were arrested in Southern Ijaw local government area and two were arrested in Ekeremor local government area. He explained that the suspects arrested in Ekeremor were also engaging in stealing of well head from Oil companies. “Recently OPDS effort in tackling the activities of pipeline vandals resulted in the arrest of suspected vandals that detonated dynamites resulting to the breach of an International Oil Company facility located at Tebidaba- Ogboinbiri- Brass pipeline in the outskirt of Imgbiba Community of Southern Ijaw local government area of Bayelsa State. “Following the incident, troops acted on a tip off spotted suspected hideout at a fishing camp along Isonogbene where three suspects namely Mr Ayebemi Dressman, Mr Inimotimi Abule and Mr Epemege Frank were arrested in connection with the vandalism at Peremabiri community in Bayelsa State.” He disclosed that the suspects in the Ekeremor incident, Bibowa Anemi and Ngoriduwa Gomogo forced a disruption of the operations of an Oil company and loss of revenue for the Federal Government on account of the well head they stole. In, Rivers State, Adm. Suleiman said troops deployed at Omoku forest in Rivers State, acting on a tip-off, engaged some suspected kidnappers in a gun battle which led to the rescue of a kidnapped victim and the death of two suspected kidnappers. “In addition, troops raided a suspected pirate hideout at Elema, Rivers state. Although, no arrest was made during the raid, several items were recovered. The items include 23 rounds of 7.62mm Ball Special ammunition, one generating set and 40 Horse Power Suzuki Speed Boat engine” he said. Suleiman assured the people that the OPDS is on top of the security situation would not abdicate its responsibilities to protect oil and gas infrastructure as well as fight militancy, sea-robbery, crude oil theft and other forms of criminality within the joint operations area.