By Christopher Oji SUSPECTED Badoo cult group has again killed three persons in Ikorodu area of Lagos.
Following the latest attack, residents of the community yesterday besieged the palace of the Ayangbure of Ikorodu, Oba Adewale Shotobi, to protest the continued killings by the gang.
The Badoo group yesterday, attacked a family of five at Olopomeji, Odogunyan, Ikorodu, killing three and leaving two children, between the ages two and four, in critical condition.
Daily Sun gathered that the cultists struck around 3am, attacking four houses in a row.
The compounds were numbers 9, 10, 11 and 12, Aliyu Adesanya Street, Olopomeji Bus Stop, but the fatality was recorded at No. 9, where the family of David Ikehi recorded deaths.
A resident, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said members of the Ikehi family were struck to death with a grinding stone.
The witness said: “David, his wife, Pricilla, and their son, Moses were killed with a grinding stone. Another son, Sunday, was seriously injured, while their two-year-old boy is missing. A bloodstained grinding stone was found on the premises and that was when we suspected that the dreaded cult group known as Badoo had struck again.
“Apart from numbers 9 and 10, two other buildings were attacked, although no casualty was recorded in the other buildings.”
He said policemen from Sagamu Road Division were invited to the scene, “after which they took the injured to the hospital and the dead to the mortuary.”
It was gathered that one Baba Chukwemeka of No 10, Aliyu Adesanya Street, escaped death by the whiskers. He was said to have run into the attacker, who attempted to strike him with a stone.
Having dodged the blow, Baba Chukwuemeka shouted for help, which attracted neighbours.
It was in the process of searching for the gang members that residents discovered the bodies of the Ikehis. Also, it was during the search that the Ikehis’ landlord was let out of his room, which had ben locked from outside by the gang.
Meanwhile, angry residents yesterday thronged the palace of the Oba to protest the criminal activities of the Badoo gang. Operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS), the police and military personnel were drafted to the scene, to maintain law and order.
The residents accused security operatives of not doing enough to unmask those behind the incessant attacks in Ikorodu and demanded thorough investigations.
In a related development, a community leader, Mike Ozue, has called on Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris, to save the community from total extermination.
Ozue said: “Some of us are relocating because we don’t know the next victim.”