The first Lagos edition of the Mega Music Nationwide Tour held last Saturday in Ajah has proved that the city of excellence is still the heartbeat of entertainment in Nigeria.
First, the show had unarguably the biggest and most popular names in the industry, including new Glo brand ambassador, Innocent Idibia (2Baba), Olamide (Badoo), Timaya, Phyno, Yemi Alade, Kiss Daniel, Runtown and Reekado Banks, all performing. Second, either by design or fortuitously, the show fell on a long weekend, with two landmark celebrations – the Children’s Day and Democracy Day – which gave people ample reason and time to go fun-seeking. KFA Marquee, the venue of the show, was the preferred destination as it was filled to the brim, and the anxiety of the surging crowd was well assuaged as the acts thrilled them one after the other.
First to mount the stage was Runtown who showed why he is regarded as the hottest dancehall act at the moment with a performance that set the perfect tone for the evening. He was followed by Reekado Banks of the Marvin Dynasty who delivered his hit tunes like ‘Katapot’ and ‘Oluwa Ni’ to sustain the energy in the excited hall. Boss lady, Yemi Alade, was next. She came with her full band, back-up singers and choreographers and put up a highly charged performance that wowed the audience who danced along and applauded her to no end.
Kiss Daniel and Phyno followed to the delight of the crowd. Both delivered masterful performances which the audience thoroughly enjoyed. When the crowd thought the show could not get any better, Tuface appeared on stage. His appearance drew a thunderous ovation from the crowd and he proceeded to take them down memory lane with a rendition of some of his evergreen numbers. The profoundly elated crowd stood up, chanting and singing along with him. At some point, Nollywood actress and show anchor Mercy Johnson returned on stage to dance with Tuface. As he held Mercy in a mildly suggestive way, Tuface assured the audience, “Don’t worry, I have stopped doing that kind of thing,” an apparent reference to his reputation as a Casanova. This sent the crowd into hysterical laughter.
Next to thrill the crowd was Timaya who told them the story of his very humble background and thereafter switched into religious mode as he sang “It shall be permanent, what the Lord has done for me, it shall be permanent”. He subsequently knelt down, thanking the audience for contributing immensely to his success. Ending the show was rapper, Olamide Badoo. It was a perfect way to end the evening of fun as his elated fans surged forward to catch a better glimpse of their idol who dished out hits like ‘Skekelobose’ and ‘Shakitibobo’.