•As rumour of dumping party spreads FROM Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha Anambra State governor, Chief Willie Obiano has debunked the rumour making the rounds in the state that he had dumped his party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for an undisclosed new political party.
Speaking through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Strategic Communications, Prince Oliver Okpala yesterday, the governor said he has never contemplated the idea of leaving his party.
Yesterday, the news of the governor’s purported dumping of APGA went viral in the social media as he was alleged to have vowed not to accept Ochudo Martin Agbaso as the national chairman of the party.
It was also alleged that the 21 transition committee chairmen in the state met Wednesday night at Millicent Hotel Nibo, and perfected plans for the governor’s defection to another party, where they would deliver him. But in a swift reaction yesterday, the governor’s aide, Prince Okpala said the rumour was the handiwork of the opposition who he said have no genuine political programme or economic agenda for the state.
He said, “I hereby state for proper public enlightenment and information, that Governor Willie Obiano remains a strong card carrying member of APGA and he still remains the chairman of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) and leader of the party.
“He has never contemplated on the idea of dumping APGA for any other party. He still stands on his unshakable desire and commitment of seeking reelection as governor on the platform of his party, APGA. “This present rumour circulating is no doubt the handiwork of the opposition who have no genuine political programme or economic agenda for Ndi Anambra.”
Meanwhile, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, has passed vote of confidence, and restated its support to the National Chairman of the party, Dr. Victor Oye.
NWC however warned detractors who are bent on causing confusion in the party to desist from the plot or stand to face the wrath of the law. In the communiqué issued by the NWC after its meeting in Awka, Anambra State and signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ifeatu Obi-Okoye, it expressed confidence and respect for the Nigerian judiciary in handling the matters of the party adding that it hoped that the recent ruling on its leadership would be set aside. 