By Gilbert Ekezie Chief Executive Officer of AKO Group of Companies Limited, Mr Obiora Atuchukwu has said that Pykure herbal capsule, an Indian Ayurvedic medicine for all stages of piles, fistula and fissures is effective due to its natural quality and compositions.
He said the medicine is not only effective, but has no side effects unlike other products of its kind all over the world.
Atuchukwu said Pykure is a globally acclaimed medicine with a formulation comprising of about 15 herbs sourced from different parts of the world. “Plants and herbs used in producing Pykure are from the world’s known major herbal medicine producers like India, Egypt, China and Africa.”
Atuchukwu, whose firm is the sole marketer of Pykure in the entire African continent explained that the product utilizes the body’s natural healing process for the treatment of piles, and the ingredients used are those which are regularly produced in the body.
He noted that another good quality of Pykure is that it takes care of all stages of piles without side effects. “With Pykure capsules, no one talks about surgery for piles, no matter how bad it may be. I have received a lot of calls from many patients testifying of the effectiveness of Pykure and I am very happy about that.”
The AKO Group chief executive also pointed out that Pykure is good because it is cost-effective and affordable. “One does not need to have expensive health insurance to get them. They can easily be bought over the counter.”
Atuchukwu further explained that patients are expected to take between 200-300 capsules of Pykure, before it could eliminate the pile totally.  “One must complete the dosage if effectiveness is required. But we found out that some patients take between 20-30 capsules, and relax, believing that their problems will be over. The truth is Pykure has a standard and specification, and if they are not met, there will be no magic. Once the complete dosage is taken, the patient will be free within two months.”
Moreover, he warned that pile patients should not sit for prolonged period of time, but should rest at regular intervals, so that blood circulation could be restored in the anal area. “Patients should also try to increase the amount of fibre in their diets and eat plenty of cereals, fruits, green vegetables. And, in the case of children, if parents notice pile in them, they should change their food immediately and add vegetables to their meals. That would go a long way in controlling the pile.”