…Alleges plan to stop own declaration From, WOLE BALOGUN‎, ADO-EKITI A gubernatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Kola Alabi, has told the ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) that the APC would not be  intimidated in the state. Alabi, who alleged a  plan to stop his governorship declaration at his party’s secretariat, in Ajilosun area of the state, vowed that his party,  APC would resist any attempt to intimidate it’s aspirants. According to the party, Alabi had obtained a police permit which was granted by the state police command about three weeks before the declaration but was allegedly persuaded by the Commissioner of Police, Abdullahi Chafe, to shift the event. The command allegedly attempted to convince Alabi to shift ‎the event because Governor Ayo Fayose was also holding victory rally to mark the third anniversary of his electoral victory in 2014. But Alabi staged a street procession which shut down some parts of Ado-Ekiti and his native Ikere-Ekiti from where party faithful trooped out in large numbers to witness the ‎declaration at the APC secretariat. There was a massive security build-up to prevent a possible clash ‎between APC members and Fayose’s supporters. Men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Department of State Services (DSS) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) at Ijigbo and Ajilosun areas of Ado-Ekiti. Addressing party leaders while declaring his intent to run for governor in 2018, Alabi said neither himself nor his party could be ‎intimidated in the quest to bring about positive change in the state. He promised to focus on agriculture, development of mineral resources, ‎opening up more revenue-generating ventures and growing cottage industries. Receiving the aspirant, APC Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Kemisola Olaleye, ‎slammed the state police command for attempting to force a shift of the event for which a valid permit had been secured. She explained that the police had shifted two APC programmes for which ‎permit had been obtained in recent past in favour of rallies by Fayose questioning the neutrality of the command. Mrs. Olaleye said: “Fayose cannot intimidate us because we have police permit for this declaration at our party secretariat. APC is fully on ‎ground, nobody can chase us out of the state and whether Fayose like it or not, we are coming to power at next year’s election.’ 