 …Audio Ramadan message is false From: WOLE BALOGUN, Ado-Ekiti Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, on Wednesday, gave shocking claims about the health status of President Muhammadu Buhari who has been in a London hospital for 54 days now. Governor Fayose, in a press briefing at the Government office, in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, claimed that facts available to him showed that President Buhari has been on life support since June 6 at a West-End Hospital in London. He said that not only does the president have voice impairment, and could not have spoken in Hausa to Nigerians on Ramadan day as claimed by the presidency, but also that the president is currently incapable of ruling the nation in his present health status. He said: “Like every other Nigerians, I do not wish the president dead, I have therefore maintained dignified silence since we were told that the president embarked on his second medical trip abroad this year. ” However, the recorded audio message which was released by the presidency as the president’s Ramadan message to Nigerians necessitated my setting the records straight today.” Observing that no official information has been given to Nigerians on the president’s health and noting that neither the Acting President Yemi Osinbajo nor the president’s wife, Mrs. Aisha Buhari could claim to have either seen or spoken with President Buhari since his second medical trip to London, Fayose said he was revealing his findings in good faith and does not wish the president dead. He therefore, stated his position thus: ” “That the audio message does not represent the truth as our president does not only have voice impairment, he has been on life support since June 6 at a West-End, London Hospital. “Of a fact, our First Lady, Her Excellency, Mrs. Aisha Buhari was not allowed to see her husband during her last visit to the United Kingdom if only she will be courageous enough to admit. “Only three Nigerians who are of the president’s cabal are allowed access to him. I will keep their identities for now. ” The governor who challenged the presidency or any other person with  contrary claim to his claims on Buhari, to produce such in 48 hours further drew Nigerians attention to his earlier claims about President Buhari: “It is obvious that Nigeria is drifting like the last days of the Yar’Adua’s government. Nigerians will recall that I warned against electing President Buhari on the account of his age, health state.”