…As church begins ‘King of kings crusade’ in Erio-Ekiti From: WOLE BALOGUN, Ado_Ekiti Founder of Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Cannan Land, and lead pastor, CAC Mountain of Mercy, Erio-Ekiti, in Ekiti West Local Government Area, of Ekiti State, Prophet Oluboye Hezekiah Oladeji, has urged Nigerian leaders to lead with the fear of God, saying that failure of those in authorities to say the truth has put the country into some bondage of under-development, insurgency, hatred, corruption, ethnicity, and socio-economic recession among others. Assuring, however, that the way out of the current woes befalling the nation was a return to God, the cleric said: “The King of kings knows the beginning and end of all things. He is the one who has the solutions to the challenges facing the nations.” Speaking further about the 15th edition of his church’s annual crusade, tagged: “King of kings”, and sheduled to hold from June 26 to July 1, the cleric, flanked by other church leaders including Prophet Sam Olu Alo, Pastor Ola Ojo, Pastor Peter Ilesanmi and  Evangelist Mayowa Ojo, said: “What we want everyone to know is that whatever we are experiencing in this life, in our marriage, work, family life, God’s ministry and even in running the affairs of the country, the only one who can show us the way is the king of kings. “This word is addressing our nations and those of us who are in it and as well addresses the government of the day and you who are reading this piece. Never doubt in your present challenge. Remember there is a King of kings, who is Jesus Christ, he had saved those people in those days. He was who brought the dead back to life. “He emboldened Moses for three months, not to be afraid of the King’s law. He kept Daniel in the lions’ den. He was the one who liberated Israelites from their captivity and through the dry land inside the sea. He controls all world powers and He is the King of kings. “We have given this crusade the title ‘King of kings because I am assuring everyone in Nigeria, that all the challenges of hate speech, mis-governance, austerity, recession, kidnapping, and terrorism among others would soon pass away”. Hezekiah, who urged clerics of the Christian and Muslim faiths to pray against challenges pointing towards a possible break-up of the country, continued, ” Nigeria has been in bondage for so many years. One of the bondage is deception, and where there is no truth, we cannot find God there, but there would be all sorts of un righteousness, corruption, killing, maiming and all that. But I have this belief that the one who has started to bring us out of that bondage gradually, will perfect His deliverance in our life. “Righteousness exalts a nation, sin is a reproach. Everyone of us, clerics, leaders, market men and women, we must all be truthful in our dealings with fellow men. Let’s do things with the fear of God because we will account for all our actions here on earth. “The only way out of the bondage for us is to always say the truth to ourselves so that the King of kings can deliver us. I believe strongly that the King of kings will take over. He will use some people, like He used Moses, to deliver us thoroughly. “The one who knows the foundation of Nigeria is the King of kings. All the hate speeches, secession threats, sectionalism, terrorism and all that would eventually reveal the manifestation of the King of kings. This is why we are assuring all that very soon, the manifestation of the King of kings would put paid to all these challenges. ” There are still challenges ahead for us, but all these will be happening as trials for the nation so we can appreciate the omni-potent power of the King of kings.” Giving testimonies about past crusades of the church, Prophet Hezekiah, who assured that adequate preparations on security and transport to crusade venue have been made, enjoined participants to attend with faith, said: “There is a woman who has been here for a week, her company was unjustly sealed up by the authorities and we have been praying, yesterday she told me that they have opened the firm and even written an apology letter to her. A young man was also brought from abroad. He used to be wayward, killing and wounding people, but God’s power has transformed him and he is now a changed person for good.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 