• No going back until govt fulfils agreement –Labour From Jude Okoro, Calabar The industrial action embarked upon by workers in Cross River has continued to gather storm as the governor has ordered workers to resume work after public holidays or be sack. Penultimate Monday, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trades Union Congress (TUC) declared industrial dispute with the state government over the latter’s failure to implement a 13-point agreement, including payment of promotion arrears and gratuity. Activities at ministries, government schools and hospitals have since been paralysed following the industrial action by the workers. Piqued by repeated appeals to labour leaders to call off the strike and resume work, the state government, through the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mrs. Rosemary Archibong, has ordered commissioners and heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to ensure all government offices are open for business on Wednesday. The commissioner,  in a statement, said: “Sequel to the ongoing strike and refusal of the labour to call off the action despite the fact that government has fulfilled the demands presented for resolution, Governor Ben Ayade hereby directs as follows: ‘All commissioners and heads of MDAs should ensure govt offices are open for business on Wednesday.” Archibong, in the statement made available to Daily Sun, said state government has invoked the no-work-no-pay clause and added that the governor has directed all commissioners and heads of MDAs to obtain technical or appropriate services that they may require through recruitment, procurement or outsourcing. “Effective from Wednesday, all MDAs must be functional and commissioners/heads shall be held responsible. Government has  responsibility to keep the wheels of government machinery turning, in the best interest of the generality of Cross River people. “Once more, we hereby reiterate that the no-work-no-pay clause has been invoked. Please be guided,” she stated. In his reaction, NLC Chairman, John Ushie, insisted the strike will continue until government meets their demands. Ushie said they are ready for talks, as always, but the state government was yet to call for any, but, for now, “the strike is total and it will continue.” NLC and government had signed a 13-point resolution to end an earlier industrial action called by the organised labour in the state and among others it was resolved that promotion exercise of deserving civil/public servants shall resume forthwith and that letters be released while financial implications will be worked out by the Head of Service and Commissioner for Finance for governor’s consideration. Others include to investigate the actual deductions from salaries of staff and stop same if confirmed by the Commissioner for Finance, Accountant General and Labour are to investigate the actual deductions from salaries of staff and stop same if confirmed as well as full payment of outstanding gratuity of retirees in the state civil/public service for the period June to December, 2013 outstanding gratuities for the year 2014. 