• Alleged to have raked in billions of naira in ransom By Chioma Igbokwe Operatives of the Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Response Team (IRT) with the aid of intelligence report from the Technical Intelligence Unit (TIU) have arrested the most wanted notorious high profile kidnapper in Lagos, popularly known as ‘Evans’.
Evans, whose real names are Chukwudubem Onwuamadike and a native of Nnewi North LGA in Anambra State was picked up yesterday afternoon by detectives led by ACP Abba Kyari at his mansion in Magodo estate, Lagos state. He was said to have packed his luggage and was plotting to leave the country the next day when police stormed his house. He was arrested about 1.00 pm.
Also arrested were about six of his gang members who were picked up in Bayelsa, Abuja and Port Harcourt.
‘Evans’ since 2013 had successfully ripped off millions of dollars from his victims who are mostly successful businessmen froam the South Eastern part of Nigeria. He was described as the most brilliant and notorious kidnapper in the history of the country.
The manhunt for Evans intensified after his latest victim, a successful pharmacist, Donatus Dunu, who was abducted on February 14, 2017, miraculously escaped from their hideout in Igando and alerted the police. The police stormed the scene and recovered arms and ammunition left by the kidnappers who fled their hideout in Igando.
Sunday Sun gathered that the IGP, Ibrahim Idris, who could not understand why it took detectives from the Anti-Robbery Squad in Lagos almost 24 hours after the victim alerted them to storm the scene, then deployed the IRT team led by ACP Abba Kyari to fish him out.
According to our source, the IGP had also instructed the Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni to place a bounty of more than N30Million on him. Dunu’s family was said to have paid the sum of N150million but Evans refused to release him, and insisted on getting the full amount in Naira equivalent to one million euro, a sum he had successfully collected from several victims in the past.
He made billions of naira from ransom in the last seven years of being the kingpin of several kidnapping groups.
Evans and his gang were alleged to be responsible for the kidnap of Sir James Uzochukwu Uduji, the chairman of CometStar Manufacturing Company, who spent three months in the custody of the gang. Uduji was abducted in front of his residence at 7th Avenue, Festac Town, Lagos on September 7, 2015. The abductors reportedly laid ambush for him at 72nd road Junction along 7th Avenue at a bad portion of the road, close to his residence. The hoodlums shot the driver and drove off with Uduji to an unknown destination.
Evans had also masterminded the abduction of Elias Unachukwu, Ojukwu Cosmas, Fidel Umeh, Chief Raymond Okoye and Uche Okoroafor.
The notorious kidnapper is said to be the only survivor in the attempted abduction of the chairman of Young Shall Grow Motors, in August 2013 at Festac Tow, Lagos.
Sunday Sun gathered that Evans lives in a N130 million mansion in Magodo. He owns two houses in Ghana and another two in Magodo. It is believed that his knows that he is a kidnapper. She has fled to Ghana with their five children.S
When a call was put through to the cellphone number of the Public Relations Officer of the Lagos State Police Command, Olarinde Famous Cole, he did not take the call. He also failed to respond to a text message sent to him, as at the time of filing this report. google_ad_client = "ca-pub-3470379246590210";
    google_ad_slot = "1805115088";
    google_ad_width = 300;
    google_ad_height = 250; 