…As Nigeria’s Wabba, Oshinowo formally resume on the board‎ The Governing Body  of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) elected Luc Cortebeeck, as Chairperson for 2017-18. He had been President of the Workers’ Group and Vice-President of the ILO Governing Body since his election in 2011. This is even as Nigeria’s Ayuba Wabba, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President  and Segun Oshinowo, Director General, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) recently elected into the Governing body as workers and employers representative, respectivelly at the just concluded International Labour Conference (ILC) in Geneva, Switzerland, formally assumed their positions on the highest executive body of the global organisation. Luc Cortebeeck replaces Dr. Ulrich Seidenberger, Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of Germany to the United Nations Office at Geneva, who served as Governing Body chairperson since June 2016. Luc Cortebeeck looks back at a long career within the trade union movement, both in Belgium and internationally. He is also Honorary President of the Confederation of Christian Trade Unions of Belgium (ACV-CSC). H.E. Luis Enrique Chávez Basagoitia, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Peru to the International Organizations in Geneva, was elected as Government Vice-chairperson. Mthunzi Mdwaba, Founder and CEO of TZoro IBC, Chairman of the University of the Western Cape, Chairman of Productivity SA, was elected as Employer Vice-chairperson. Catelene Passchier, until recently vice president of the Netherlands Trade Union Confederation (FNV), was appointed as Worker spokesperson . The Chairperson and two-vice chairpersons will serve as Officers of the Governing Body during the period 2017-18. The 330th Session of the Governing Body also considered a range of other business, including a report of the ILO Committee on Freedom of Association. The members of the Governing Body were elected for a three-year term (2017-2020) during the 106th Session (5-16 June 2017) of the International Labour Conference . The Governing Body is the executive body of the International Labour Office (the office is the secretariat of the organisation). It meets three times a year, in March, June and November, and takes decisions on ILO policy, the agenda of the International Labour Conference, and the draft programme and budget of the organisation for submission to the Conference. It is composed of 56 titular members (28 Governments, 14 Employers and 14 Workers) and 66 deputy members (28 Governments, 19 Employers and 19 Workers). Ten of the titular government seats are permanently held by states of chief industrial importance (Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, the Russian Fe“““`deration, the United Kingdom and the United States). The other Government members, and the worker and employer members, are elected by the Conference every three years. ‎ Nigeria gets elected on the ILO Governing Body ‎…Wabba, Oshinowo bag the top posts Bimbola Oyesola‎, Geneva Nigeria yesterday was elected  into the highest decision ‎making organ of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the Governing Body at the ongoing 106th International Labour Conference (ILC) holding in Geneva, Switzerland. The victory of the workers group represented by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), President, Ayuba Wabba and the Employers represented by the Director General of Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Segun Oshinowo  saw Nigeria returning to the Governing Body, the executive body of the ILO, after over a decade. While the country made it to the top in the workers and employers group, the government was sidelined to the position of deputy. The election which held yesterday at the United Nation building, venue of the conference was at the 330th Session of the Governing Body where all the 187 members cast their votes. However, three African countries, Nigeria, Angola and Kenya got the African positions on the governing body. Speaking after the election, the NLC president, Ayuba Wabba said the victory was a big opportunity for Nigeria to be heard at the global level. He said, “I am dedicating the victory to the Nigeria workers and workers around the world. It is an opportunity to give a voice to poor Nigerian workers, pensioners and Africans. It has a multiplicity advantages, with this, we are now a member of the decision making body and that means we can have our voice heard in the global sphere. “It also means that in our relationship with other social partners in the country, we will ensure that ILO standards is respected either on the issue of decent work, collective bargaining, occupational safety and others.” He lamented that workers fortune globally have continued to dwindle in spite of increased wealth creation in the world. The Director General of NECA, Segun Oshinowo also expressed that employers would use the opportunity to promote sustained inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. 