By Chinenye Anuforo Auldon Toys, manufacturers of Unity Girl Dolls, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Dufry, a global travel retailer with operations in 76 countries across the world. The partnership will see Dufry Duty Free Limited sell Auldon Toys’ Unity Girl dolls across its outlets in Nigerian airports with the prospects of being introduced in all other countries where it is present. This is a move that both parties say will be mutually beneficial to all, going by their pedigree and individual commitment to first-rate quality. Speaking during a press conference to announce the partnership, the Managing Director of Dufry Nigeria, John Hines, said, “we are no doubt thrilled to be partnering Auldon Toys, a Nigerian wholly indigenous company in this venture, as we are more than convinced about its prospects following its strong acceptability within and outside the Nigerian market. “For some time, we have observed with keen interest the soaring popularity of all Auldon’s products, particularly the Unity Doll, Auldon’s flagship product, following the unprecedented success it made in all markets with its theme on unity echoing beyond a product or service function, and carving a niche for itself as the symbol of positive values and an icon of African culture. Little wonder its target consumers now identify and freely relate to it. Unity Dolls and other Auldon toys fit beautifully into the products we like to push across Africa and beyond.” Hines also noted that, “it is worthy to mention that we have had a couple of companies that have shown interest in having us market their products but we declined because they don’t meet up to what we desire, but in the case of Auldon, we have seen a perfect match. Plans are now in motion to phase out previous dolls on our shelf, mostly white ones, for the Unity Dolls.” Chief Executive Officer, Auldon Toys, Mr. Paul Orajiaka, was equally pleased with the partnership as he acknowledged the strength and expertise Dufry is known for across the globe, stating that a partnership with a global brand of such repute is one that a leading brand like Unity Dolls and other toys under its stable need to conquer other frontiers. Orajiaka noted that Auldon was optimistic that this first step would usher in greater prospects to other Dufry Duty Free stores across the globe. “I am proud to say the level of acceptance of these dolls and our other toys across the country, has been unprecedented. I can tell you because of a handful of reasons, namely, affordability, premium quality, availability, uniqueness and most importantly the educative value the dolls offer. “So it is safe to say we are a market leader with strong prospects for increased growth. Currently, we distribute to all leading retail outlets and supermarkets across the country, namely Game, Shoprite, Spar, Next, Sahad Stores and Ebeano, among others. “We have so much to celebrate as a people and this partnership will help spread our rich culture to the global stage. We’re convinced it’s time to make impact in other climes and the best partner in actualising this plan is no other firm than Dufry,” Orajiaka said.