From Judex Okoro, Calabar cross River State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have tacitly endorsed Governor Ben Ayade for a second term in 2019. The stakeholders, mostly party bigwigs and political appointees from Central and Northern senatorial districts, held mega rallies in their respective wards and called on the governor to contest for a second term in 2019. Speaking at different rallies, they unanimously agreed that Ayade’s administration has empowered Cross River people through numerous appointments thereby putting food on many families’ tables. Speaking at Obudu Local Government Area in the Northern senatorial district, Ayade’s Chief of Staff, Martin Orim, told members and royal fathers that the administration has embarked on transformation projects, including construction of dual carriage way, to cut across five local government areas of the North and, therefore, deserve total support. Orim said the North, this time, will speak with one voice to ensure that one of their sons, Ayade, succeeds in this first term and move on to complete his second term. “We, stakeholders and political appointees, hereby endorse our son for second term in 2019 and we shall stand solidly behind him because he has done us proud,” he said. Also supporting Ayade for 2019, over 100 political appointees and hundreds of party members from Boki Local Government Area in Central senatorial district at a rally held at Biakwain yesterday said Boki is100 percent Ayade. Speaking on behalf of other appointees and party stalwarts at the event, Commissioner for Works, Dan Osim-Asu, explained that the governor had awarded the construction of 27 km Boki East-West road that have divided people of the local government area for ages. “We held this rally, in appreciation of what Ayade has done for the people of Boki. Ayade has given no fewer than 189 political appointments to Boki sons and daughters. “Boki council stands for Ayade 100 per cent. Considering all he has done for us, our collective interest should be that Ayade is elected and returned as governor in 2019,’’ he said. Commissioner for New Cities Development, Mr. George Ekpungu, stressed the need for people in the area to participate in the ongoing continuous voters’ registration exercise. The state DP Women Leader, Mrs Vera Bisong, said Ayade’s administration had empowered women from Boki. and the state at large, hence the need for women to support his administration.