From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan luck smiled on eight students of Loyola College, Ibadan, Oyo State, who would have dropped out of the senior secondary school. They have been rescued by the Loyola Old Boys Association 1977/82 set with full scholarship awards to complete their secondary education.
The beneficiaries were among the nine lucky students presented with the awards at the 35th reunion celebration of the set held in Ibadan. But the ninth student was given a full scholarship because he emerged the overall best students in the last Junior School Certificate Examination in the college.
The chairman of the set, Mr. Oluwole Adeosun, stated that the set leveraged on the 35th reunion to institute an annual scholarship scheme to encourage 10 brilliant indigent students, who otherwise would have dropped out after the Junior Secondary School education:
“The scholarship will give the students a chance to complete their secondary school education with brighter prospects for the future, instead of being incapacitated by lack of finance.
“The scholarship will cover the three years of secondary education and cater for the cost of school fees, development levy, books, uniforms, and examination for each student.”
He stated that every year, the set would award scholarships to 10 students and the 1977/82 set, which has been in existence in the past 26 years, would continue the scheme as long as it exist.
Adeosun noted that the set positively impacted Loyola College on several occasions with implementation of projects such as donation of 50 units of setting tools for the Science Laboratory, replacement of removed steel railings in front of the administrative block, redecoration of Loyola College Ibadan logo board, donation of two sets of Loyola branded top quality football team jersey and coach kit, donation of 24 pairs of Nike soccer boots to Loyola College Football Team A and B.
He charged members of the set to redouble their “efforts in conjunction with the LOCOBA national body to restore our alma mater to its past preeminent position in Nigeria Education,” as he said a lot could be achieved with right commitment.
The beneficiaries and their parents, who appreciated the old students for the gesture, urged other old students and well-to-do members of the public to rise in defence of education. The parents advocated adequate funding for education.