From NKECHI CHIMA ONYELE, Abuja Talented and beautiful actress, Nkiru Umeh is making waves in the movie industry. The young, stylish mother of four who is popularly called ‘Ada Ugah’ spoke with Entertainer about her career, early marriage and family. Enjoy it. How did your foray into acting begin? I have always dreamt of becoming an actress since my secondary school days, but I got married early and had to concentrate on building my home. Now, I have succeeded in building my family with four lovely kids. This was actually my husband’s idea before I ventured into acting in 2011. How many movies have you featured in? I have featured in over 25 movies including ‘Royal Maid’, ‘The Goddess, and ‘The Witches’. But ‘Dangerous Maiden’ was the movie that shot me into the limelight Have you ever turned down roles in order to protect your marriage? No! Luckily, my colleagues, producers and directors are aware of my marital status, so they don’t cast me for indecent roles like wearing bikini or displaying my body for the public. Honestly, if I’m given such roles as a married woman, I will turn them down. You are a young mother; at what age did you get married? I got married at 17 and I had my first child at 18. Today, we are blessed with three boys and a girl. As a mother, are you not worried about the increase in rape cases, especially, of minors? It’s so unfortunate that Nigeria is experiencing such evil. It baffles me that an elderly man, old enough to father a minor would defile her. In some cases, these minors suffer molestation in the hands of their biological fathers to the extent that they take away their virginity. Nollywood is perceived as a mirror to the world. I think our filmmakers should consider evangelising on the issue of the girl-child in order to stop this evil act. We need to tell stories that centers on the girl-child, educate them on the issue of rape and preach to the men about the punishment for such evil acts. What does style mean to you? Style means being comfortable in whatever I wear – simple and classic. You are young and beautiful, how does your husband cope seeing you act romantic roles, is he not jealous? My husband understands my job. He had stayed with me on locations several times. He knows that movies are shot with people behind the scenes. 