From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri This year, no fewer than 12,000 persons have benefited from the three-day annual free medical mission held recently for the treatment of the aged, poor and indigent by the Mbaise USA for their people at home. The free medical  mission held simultaneously at Ezinihitte, Ekwerazu, Uvuru, Lorji, Ezialakaohu Nguru and St. Gregory’s Catholic Church, Umuhu in Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area, handled minor health cases while major cases like dental, eye, hernia, fibroid requiring surgeries were handled at the Aboh Mbaise General Hospital. Speaking at the commencement of the medical mission, Mr. Paul Ikpe, chairman, Umuhu Abroadian Council, while welcoming the Mbaise USA Medical Mission team, praised their compassionate gesture towards alleviating the suffering of the people of the Mbaise nation. He called on other professionals of Mbaise extraction in the Diaspora to emulate the laudable example. According to him, “the programme has changed the popular maxim that ‘the sick seek the doctor’ as through this programme the doctor has come to seek those who are in medical need (the sick) most of whom may not have had the resources to attend to their medical needs. “At the end of this exercise, our people would have been saved the cost and stress of looking for specialists in faraway places.” Also, Chief Lambert Amadi, the traditional prime minister of Umuhu remarked: “We will ever remain grateful to these our illustrious sons and daughters who staked their resources to bring succour to our people. I thank our people for turning up in their large numbers and being orderly throughout the event.” He also called on the state government to set up a primary health centre in the community. Some of the medical personnel noted that the most prevalent ailments amongst the people included high blood pressure, diabetics, malaria and eye defects, attributing their causes to environmental factors and social habits. Mrs. Immaculata Nkoronye, Maryland, USA-based nurse advised the people to maintain a clean environment, healthy feeding habit by taking advantage of fresh natural foods. She also cautioned against drug abuse, which she noted might be more dangerous to health. Dr. Vitalis Ojiegbe, leader of the team, thanked the people of Umuhu for turning out for the programme and praised the effort of Mbaise USA in putting up the mission. However, the event ended on a sad note, with the death of one of the major donors and president of Aka Ikenga USA, Chief Dr. Laur Onyekwere. As at the time of filing this report, it was not yet clear what caused his death.