…As Dickson’s wife takes up sponsorship By NgozI Uwujare The future of 11-month old Oyintari Joseph, whose penis was accidentally amputated by his 75-year-old grandfather, now look hopeful as the wife of the governor of Bayelsa State, Mrs. Rachael Dickson has stepped in to sponsor the special urological surgery that would restore the functionality of his genital.
Arrangements have been concluded for the tiny tot and his mother to travel to India, where the special surgery would be performed.
The cheery news was disclosed by the chairman of the Bayelsa State chapter of the International Federation of Women Lawyers, Mrs. Shella Ogbise, who, along with other members of the executive, championed the campaign to secure sponsorship of the surgery, which the little boy needs to have a normal and biologically fulfilled adulthood. Oyintari’s agony began one day in February when his grandfather, Ziworitn Keke, who was said to be a local circumciser, slashed off the extremely soft glans (tip) of the penis in the bid to cut off the foreskin in the course of circumcising the little boy, in Ondewari community, Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. As the gush of blood that followed the horrific error did not abate after the old man applied local herbs, which he claimed had always been effective and efficacious in the 33 years he had practiced as a local circumciser, then the child’s mother, Udora Michael, then rushed him to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Yenagoa, where doctors battled to save the life of the child.
Upon learning about the pathetic case of the child, FIDA-Bayelsa Chapter stepped into matter as the incident impinged on the provisions of the Child Rights Act. Ogbise said that the energetic and sustained efforts of FIDA prompted the Bayelsa State police commissioner, Mr. Amba Asuquo, to order the arrest of the old man, which was effected by operatives of the anti-vice unit, who later transferred the case to the State Criminal Investigation Department at the headquarters of the police command in Yenagoa. Ogbise stated that the campaign for sponsorship began when the group visited the little boy at the children’s ward of the FMC, were he was on admission.
The group drew the attention of Mrs Dickson, who, Ogbise revealed, demonstrated that she is truly a mother-in-Israel and backed up her expression of sympathy with a promise to sponsor the surgery which Oyintari desperately needs to fulfill social and reproductive functions later in life.
According to Ogbise, the Bayelsa First Lady quickly arranged for Oyintari and his mother to secure international passports. Mrs Dickson also handed over a cheque of N6 million to FIDA to cover the cost of the surgery, roundtrip airfare and hotel accommodation in India for Oyintari and his mother.
Meanwhile, Sunday Sun gathered that the old man would be charged to court before the end of June. The non-arraignment of the suspect has been delaying the departure of the boy and his mother to India. Once the suspect is charged to court, Ogbise said the woman and her son would leave for India.
Other women groups have continued to express sympathy and offer support to Oyintari and his mother. The chairperson of Police Officers Wives Association (POWA), Baysela State chapter, Mrs. Janet Amba, stated that the POWA executives were deeply shocked to learn about the boy’s ordeal. They prayed that the surgery would be successful. They commended the wife of the Bayelsa State governor for her demonstration of motherly love and care. They noted that Mrs, Dickson has been touching the lives of the less privileged in the society. google_ad_client = "ca-pub-3470379246590210";
    google_ad_slot = "1805115088";
    google_ad_width = 300;
    google_ad_height = 250;