The profile of GAC Motors soared higher recently when the organisers of the golden jubilee of Lagos State opted for the Chinese brand as the official car company for the Rumble in Lagos boxing-entertainment event.
Though the former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, did not show up for the much-advertised ‘fight’, his ‘opponent’, Evander Holyfield, and the referee, Prof. Wole Soyinka, did!
Expectedly, when Holyfield and his entourage arrived in Lagos from the United States last week for the event, a fleet of cars provided by GAC Motors, including SUVs and sedans, was waiting at the airport for him and was part of his itinerary till he departed.
Always led by the luxurious, top-of-the-range GS8 SUV, including during a visit to the GAC Motors head office in Victoria Island, where a press conference was held, GAC showed why its products are acknowledged in parts of the world for their comfortable ride, attractive design and state-of-the-art technologies.
Welcoming Holyfield to GAC Motors, Chief Diana Chen, chairman/CEO of Choice International Group, the sole distributor of GAC Motors in Nigeria, said her company was glad to associate with Lagos on the anniversary and host the boxing legend.
Chen reiterated the commitment of her company to supporting initiatives that promote sports entertainment, youth empowerment and the general wellbeing of the Nigerian populace. According to her, GAC Motor was delighted that some of its exquisite products would serve as official cars for Holyfield and his entourage during their stay in Nigeria.
With a 17-year track record of developing strong business networks, Choice International Group has earned the reputation of introducing top-notch brands and providing exceptional products and services to customers.
CIG recently built a facility for semi-knocked-down (SKD) assembly of GAC vehicles in Nigeria, and plans to expand its business ventures into the retail industry with the introduction of the popular Miniso supermarket chain to the Nigerian market.
Mr. Wole Adeniyi, CEO of ACI Entertainment, promoters of the event, thanked CIG for identifying with the event.