Foremost banker and philanthropist extraordinaire, Otunba Subomi Balogun was sighted recently at the VIP Lounge of Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos.
Spotted in his traditional white attire, the billionaire businessman was looking refreshed while he was being guided by one of his aides to the arrival section where a retinue of his protocol staff waited to receive him.
The stylish man of means came in an early morning flight from London but no one was sure if it was a Virgin Atlantic or a chartered flight. It’s believed that the man had gone for his routine medical check-up in Queen’s land and may have been instructed by his doctors not to stress himself.
At over 81 years, Otunba Tunwase as he his otherwise known still looks gay and bubbly. He is the major catalyst behind the success of his bank- First City Monument Bank (FCMB)- where his son, Ladi, holds forth as the Managing Director.
A blessed man whose children are excelling in their chosen fields, Otunba Balogun is a devout Christian and one of the pillars of Methodist Church of Nigeria.
An illustrious son of Ijebuland, his philanthropic gestures know no bound. He has built as well as renovated many hospitals than any other indigene in his homeland.
Over a decade ago, he established Otunba Tunwase Foundation to satiate his philanthropic endeavours like the Iye Subomi’s Child Care Centre, which boasts of a 40-bed fully air-conditioned children hospital, Otunba Tunwase National Paedriatic Centre amongst others.
He has funded a lot of research works in universities in his bid to help humanity.
In an interview, he once said “I am not asking for anything again in life; all the beautiful things of this life, God has given me, I now have a duty to devote the rest of my life to serve God, to serve humanity and to continue to do things because at the end of the day, none of us will drive Rolls Royce to the grave.”
Otunba Subomi is married to an ageless beauty, Abimbola Adetutu and they have remained inseparable for years.