ω  Expectant mums give reasons they show off in maternity photo shoots By KATE HALIM Shots of pregnant women baring their bumps in maternity photo shoots are making the waves at the moment in Nigeria. Hardly any day goes by without social media users feeding their eyes with different shapes of bumps. In the past, pregnant women are ashamed to show off their bodies, because of the unpleasant changes that take place in their bodies during this important time of their lives. Weight gain, stretch marks, skin patches and sometimes, varicose veins, prevented women from exposing their bodies. These days, many pregnant women seem no longer to care who sees their baby bumps and changed bodies. They are willing, ready and happy to show their blessings to the world, with creative and beautiful maternity photo shoots. They take the time to create the kind of images they want to show the world in their minds and commit to making them a reality. These maternity shoots come in different themes and story lines. Sometimes the husbands of these women are dragged into the scenes for an added touch. It is like pregnant women these days are in a race to outdo one another when it comes to going nude in maternity shoots. The reasons for taking time to have maternity shoots vary from woman to woman. They also don’t mind expending resources to engage in this new craze. To some, it serves as a beautiful reminder of the most precious time in their lives, which they wish to share with friends and family alike. It is not really clear how and when maternity shoots crept into Nigeria. Buy what is obvious is that some women have gone overboard with this trend. Some of them now do all-clothes-off  shoots just to show off. Maternity photo shoots are here to stay Mrs. Tomi Adegbenro and her husband Baba Soji, who were expecting their second child, recently dazzled in trendy maternity photos. The expectant mother showed her growing baby bump stylishly to the world in different poses. The couple celebrating their 4th wedding anniversary decided to have a family photo-shoot which turned out to be an inspiration to other couples. The professional photo shoots creatively reveal the joy in this young family as they beamed with smiles, while husband and wife took turns to rub the baby bump lovingly. For Mrs. Rita Nnadi, who is expecting her first child, having her maternity shoot was one of the best things that happened in her life. She had to do the shoot to show other pregnant women that they can be happy with their bodies during pregnancy, no matter the huge changes it undergoes with pregnancy, she said. ‘’I am very happy my husband agreed to do this maternity shoot with me. His support means a lot to me. I had to do this to show other women that pregnancy is not something to be ashamed of and that their bodies are still beautiful, despite the changes it has undergone.’’ When Mrs. Gbemisola Oyebade suggested they had a maternity photo shoot when she became pregnant after six years delay, her husband refused. He insisted that her body was his and she didn’t need to go to that length to prove anything to anybody. But he had to give in after she insisted so much. According to Mrs. Oyebade, she had to do the photo shoot to silence people who were spreading rumours that she was planning to buy a baby. ‘’The naked picture of my naked baby bump will shut the mouths of detractors who were bent on tarnishing my image. We had to do maternity shoots with three different themes, so that people will know that I was truly pregnant,” she said. Mrs. Peace Utomi, who recently showcased her baby bump to the world with beautiful and breathtaking shots said that: “Pregnancy photo shoot is the best way women can show off their beautiful baby bump, while making their pregnancy a memorable experience also.’’ She said that taking a maternity photo shoot is a way of keeping memories alive, even after years had gone by, when you go back to your photo album it will remind you what you looked like, when you were pregnant with your child.  A woman’s maternity portraits are wonderful gifts for her children. Celebrities not left out Rocking beautiful baby bumps, youthful glow and super cute stylish clothes has become one of the hottest trends amongst celebrities today. Many of them are now devoting time to showcasing their pregnancy bumps to the world. By the look of things, it is obvious that this trend is here to stay. When she was pregnant with her son, Nollywood actress, Stephanie Okereke, posed in white and purple dresses. The angelic look of her white dress beautifully contrasted with her baby bump. Actress Chacha Eke-Faani also revealed her big baby bump in her semi nude maternity shoot. Her pictures captured many hearts as her fans took turns to share them on Instagram and facebook. Nollywood actress and video vixen, Dior Chidera Adiele, posed completely nude in her new pregnancy photo-shoot. She didn’t mind the negative comments of some Nigerians when she posted her pictures online. Adiele revealed she was cool with her body, even though she added some pounds and decided to share her joy with the world. Her pregnancy, she noted, was one of the most pleasant things that happened to her. Photographers smiling to the bank With the rising demand for maternity photo shoots, many photographers are now busy with work and are smiling to the bank at the same time. For many of these professional photographers, doing maternity shoots is not as easy as it looks. Mr. Ozalla Buchi Freeman, Principal Coordinator of Birthrite Photography, charges between N50, 000 and N100, 000 for maternity shoots. But his prices are dependent on some factors. “I charge by costumes and some other photographers charge by timing. I also take time to scout cool, serene environments for my maternity shoots. I don’t do those stereotypical shoots where the expectant mum poses for photographs at home.’’ Mr. Freeman revealed that the reason he liked changing the environment for his clients was because he wanted to give them beautiful memories to cherish for a long time. According to him, changing sceneries during maternity shoots gives his clients the room to relax and explore themselves better. He said: ‘’I am always careful while choosing venues for my maternity photo shoots. It’s not easy dealing with pregnant women, so I take my time to keep them relaxed and come out with something spectacular at the end of the day.’’ Wani Olatunde is a portrait photographer who loves to capture beautiful moments with her creative and alluring shots. To Wani, maternity photo shoots are not leaving the scene anytime soon and she charges enough to keep body and soul together. For her clients’ maternity photo shoots, Wani loves to simplify her surroundings. “The beauty of a mother anticipating the arrival of her child should be captured in a way that allows the miracle to speak for itself. Pregnancy doesn’t require anything else to be present in a photograph to help tell its story,” she said. For David George of Bespoke Images, he is grateful for the rising trend of maternity shoots. It has helped his business over the last one year, he said. But he is quick to add that getting the perfect shots for these special women was never a walk in the park. “I charge my clients based on the number of clothes they wish to change, as well as the location. If I have a previous relationship with the client, it would be less than a first timer. My maternity shoots cost between N70, 000 to N150, 000 and upwards.’’ George revealed that highlighting relationships remain the important aspect of his services. He uses his shots to highlight the tender relationship between mum and dad, because what brings a child into the world is love in its purest form. When it comes to maternity photo shoots, Bright Ogbemudia of High Impact Studios doesn’t leave anything to chance. He loves making a pregnant woman feel beautiful. He believes that pregnant women are the prettiest and makes them feel so. Ogbemudia understands that women generally don’t feel sexy when they are pregnant, so he uses his creative shots to bring out his clients’ beauty. First, he provides a relaxing atmosphere and then he uses positive words and affirmations to get them to relax and feel good about their bodies. According to him, a good way to do this is by talking as you shoot. It’s perfectly appropriate to say things like: “That’s beautiful!” “Yes, perfect!” “Oh that’s just lovely.” “Pregnancy looks good on you girl!” Blessing Madu of Maximum Captures charges between N40, 000 to N100, 000 for her maternity photo shoots depending on the location, change of dresses as well as how long the shoot takes. Madu takes the natural beauty of a woman who’s ready to bring new life into the world and places her in the majestic beautiful outdoors and the results are simply breathtaking 