There was tension in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, last Wednesday, as the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) foiled an alleged plan to stop the governorship declaration of an aspirant, Mr. Kola Alabi. Alabi had obtained a police permit which was granted by the State Police Command about three weeks before the declaration but was allegedly persuaded by the Commissioner of Police, Abdullahi Chafe, to shift the event. The Police was believed to have attempted to convince Alabi to shift the event because Governor Ayo Fayose was also holding a victory rally to mark his third year anniversary in office. But Alabi defied the Police and staged a street procession which shut down some parts of Ado-Ekiti and his native Ikere-Ekiti from where party faithful trooped out in their thousands to witness the declaration at the APC secretariat. There was a massive security buildup to prevent a possible clash between APC members and Fayose’s supporters. Men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Department of State Services (DSS), and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) at Ijigbo and Ajilosun areas of Ado-Ekiti, were among the teams deployed. Addressing party leaders while declaring his intent to run for governor in 2018, Alabi said neither himself nor his party could be intimidated in the quest to bring about positive change in Ekiti. He promised to focus on agriculture, development of mineral resources, opening up more revenue-generating ventures and growing cottage industries. Receiving the aspirant, APC Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Kemisola Olaleye, slammed the State Police Command for attempting to force a shift of the event for which a valid permit had been secured. She explained that the Police had shifted two APC programmes for which permit had been obtained in recent past in favour of rallies by Fayose , questioning the neutrality of the Command. Mrs. Olaleye said: “Fayose cannot intimidate us because we have Police permit for this declaration at our party secretariat. APC is fully on ground, nobody can chase us out of the State and whether Fayose likes it or not, we are coming to power at next year’s election.” ……………………………………………………………………….  …. As Bishops pray for Chidoka ahead of Anambra guber Bishops from the Anglican and Methodist Church on Sunday offered prayers for one of the contenders in the November 18, 2017 Anambra State governorship election, Chief Osita Chidoka. This is just as the Bishops admonished politicians to imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship for the election. While the Methodist Bishop of Onitsha, Rt. Rev. Biereonwu Onuagha in his charge, said only God knows who would be the next governor of the State, the Anglican Bishop of Niger West Diocese, Aguleri, Rt. Rev Johnson Ekwe described Chidoka as the “icon of the new generation”. Presiding at a special service to mark his 60th birthday, which was attended by Chidoka, Methodist Bishop Onuagha prayed God to grant him the grace, strength and divine guidance as he pursues his aspiration. He also charged all those in the governorship race to imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship adding that it was only God that knows who among them would be the next governor. Earlier in the day, Chidoka had attended the first session of the third synod of the Niger West Diocese, Aguleri where Anglican Bishop Ekwe described him as a worthy son of Anambra, who has made the State proud in various national assignments adding that God would duly reward him. Addressing the Synod, Anambra State governor, Governor Willie Obiano who hails from Aguleri used the occasion to make clarifications regarding some projects by his administration and canvassed for the support of the church for a second term in office. Speaking on the occasion, Chidoka, who is contesting on the platform of the United Progressive Party (UPP), said he was not in the church for a political campaign but to attend the synod and show solidarity to the governor by supporting the church in his hometown. He cited the story in the bible where God asked David to allow his son, Solomon to build a temple for him and told the congregation that the time has come for the new generation of Anambra sons and daughters to take over the mantle of leadership and continue the works of developing the State. He also commended the church for providing spiritual guidance to the people and urged the congregation to continue to pray for him as well as the wellbeing of the State. 