Stories by Bolatito Adebayo Forty is the new twenty! So, don’t be surprised when you see women in their forties with glowing skin. You might have been wondering what they do to their skin that makes it look beautiful and radiant.
They have little secrets, because they know that at this age, their skin needs more nourishing. Aside the fact that they eat right, exercise more and wear sunscreen; they still do more. They understand that all these aren’t enough to fend off wrinkles anymore.
These people also know that their skin’s outer barrier which helps hold moisture gets weaker and less effective as they age. As usual, Sunday Sun fashion is here to help you, so don’t let the winkles and fine lines get the best of you. Here are tips that will help you look forever youthful. Step 1: Cleanse less (but exfoliate daily)
If you don’t want your skin to act its age, then as you get older, washing twice a day isn’t necessary.
A splash of warm water is all you need.
Before bed, use a creamy exfoliating cleanser to remove makeup, oil and old skin cell. The best formulas combine humectants like glycerin and hyaluronic acid with mild fruit acids or non-abrasive microbeads.
They’ll also help the active ingredients in your creams and serums penetrate better. Step 2: Let your moisturizer multitask
If you’re using a day cream that moisturizes, you can do better. You can as well add standard humectants and emollients; look for broad-spectrum sunscreen (SPF 30 or higher); protective antioxidants (vitamins C and E, green tea, niacinamide) and wrinkle-fighting peptides. Step 3: Wear retinol to bed
It’s a non-negotiable item for any woman over 40.
This form of vitamin A repairs skin at every level. It evens out skin tone, clears pores on the surface and stimulates collagen growth deep down.
Prescription versions are more potent and pricey. Apply a pea-size drop to your entire face two to three nights weekly until your skin adjusts. If your skin is ultra-sensitive, apply a thin layer of moisturizer under your retinoid.
This helps remove fine lines gradually.
However, retinol makes the skin sensitive to sunlight, so use it only at night and load on SPF during the day.