By Ngozi Uwujare Two Fulani herdsmen who left their true calling and turned to kidnapping are singing in Fulfude language, bemoaning the day they took the evil decision to abduct 24-year-old Chibuoke Amobi and Johnson Ajah, 40, Enugu State.
The herdsmen-turned-kidnappers, 24-year-old Musa Mohammed and Usman Haruna, 23, abducted the victims along the Nnara road in Nkanu East Local Government Area, Enugu State as they were returning from wedding ceremony on March 18, 2017.
The Commissioner of Police, Enugu State, Mr. Mohammed Danmallam told Sunday Sun that Musa and Usman, who were arrested by the Anti-Kidnapping Squad, both hail from Kaduna State and had been involved in several abduction incidents along the highway.
He said that the duo with others still at large always took their victims to Akpugo in Nkanu East LGA, where their hideout is located and then proceed to demand for ransom.
In the case of the Amobi and Ajah, they asked for N2million ransom
Sunday Sun learnt from the Enugu police boss that a crack team led by Supol Alex Akinlolu and with the aid of intelligence report and precise surveillance raided the hideout of the kidnappers and arrested the suspects. The police team recovered some arms and ammunition from the suspects.
However it was gathered that the two victims were held for one day and released after their families rallied and paid the sum of N400,000 as ransom.
At the headquarters of the Enugu State Police Command, where they are being held as investigation progresses, one of the suspects, Musa told Sunday Sun in a brief chat he and his alleged accomplice had dispossessed their victims of several valuable items and collected huge ransom.
He added: “We don’t kill victims. We were only after the ransom we demanded after kidnapping a victim. We are cattle-rearers who also engage in kidnapping. We have a five-member gang.”
Musa explained further that the relations of one victim paid N50,000 while the other victim’s relations paid N350,000.
But nemesis began to close in on the gang when one member died in an accident as the group was in the process taking the vicgtims into the bush. He was knocked down he died on the spot.
The other two members are still at large. But Danmallam has assured that they would be tracked down and brought to justice. Meanwhile Musa and Usman would be charged to court soon.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 