From Joe Effiong, Uyo An educationist and proprietor of Sure Foundation Polytechnic, in Ukanafun Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Dr Idongesit Udom, was kidnapped on April 9, 2017. He was released towards the end of May after his kidnappers had amputated his right hand.
Udom has just opened up on the incident and showed to the world the stomp where his hand was amputated by his kidnappers.
Appearing on his Facebook account as shared by his son, Mr. Ndiana-Abasi Nana Udom, an Uyo-based banker, the school proprietor said he was grateful to God for sparing his, as he had lost al hope of living.
“To God be the glory! I am alive through the extended mercy, pardon and love of our Lord Jesus Christ. He has forgiven my sins and has answered the prayers of all the Christians, Muslims in Nigeria, Cameroon, United Kingdom, United States, the world over, who prayed for 32 days of my captivity. May the good Lord bless you all abundantly, in Jesus name, Amen.
“May the good Lord bless the governor of Akwa Ibom State and members of his executive council, the Presidency, the good people of Ukanafun LGA, my family and all the security agencies that did everything possible to ensure my safe release.
“Though I was released with my right hand cut off, I am eternally grateful to my God for the new life. My life was over. Thanks to the government of Akwa Ibom State, all the pastors, ExxonMobil friends, all other friends and relatives who have provided for my hospital requirements,” he said in the message.
Udom was on his way to the local Qua Iboe Church in his community when he was allegedly abducted by four heavily armed men travelling in a van.
Daily Sun learned that some suspects have been arrested on account of Udom’s kidnap.
One of those still in police custody at the time of this report is the chairman of Ukanafun Local Government Area, Mr. Abasiono Udomfu. He was arrested last week when he went to honour a police invitation at the command headquarters, Ikot Akpanabia, on account of incessant killings and kidnapping in his domain.
The state police public relations officer, Mr. Chukwu Ikechukwu, while confirming that some arrests have been made, stressed that investigation into the Ukanafun problem was still in progress.
Udom’s son, Ndianabasi, in his comment on his father’s travails, said: “Now that my father has posted this by himself, I can now show the world what was done to him. By the special grace of God and the government of Akwa Ibom State, he will be having an artificial hand soon.” google_ad_client = "ca-pub-3470379246590210";
    google_ad_slot = "1805115088";
    google_ad_width = 300;
    google_ad_height = 250; 