“Prof., good evening, sir. Please, I want you to publish my testimony again, after using your oil to pray, I anointed my house together with my entire body according to your instruction. All the witches manifesting as tiny rats that usually disturbed me finally disappeared. None of them could be seen anymore, even the obnoxious odour that accompanied them also vanished. Now, I and my family can sleep well without any attack of the evil one…God bless you for us.” – Mr. Emeka 08060343233 “My mother was responsible for my barrenness. I never believed all the prophesies pointing in that direction. Even when I contacted you and told you all that other men of God said about her, you used wisdom to disabuse my mind from such thinking. I ordered two bottles of your oil as directed, after using the oil, without my husband’s approval, my mother immediately left my house for the village. She left without informing anyone. On reaching home, she called me after two weeks and started weeping on phone with deep apologies. When I asked her why she was apologizing, she said that she held me with spiritual power that was kept in a secret pot in my village. The pot got broken while she was in Lagos, which was why she had to hurry home. She confessed that the pot was forced by a strange power to break into pieces. After her long confession, she became sick and was finally set free. Today, I am pregnant after 14 years of marriage and my date of birth is very close. Please, sir, continue to pray for me. God bless you.” (Names and contact withheld). The fact is that we have misunderstood ourselves in the light of spiritual spectrum of reality. We have grossly applied some vain philosophies of life that have greatly assisted mankind in the acceleration of his predicament. Ignorance is responsible! We must realise that we are one with HIM the internally eternal God and he separates ignorance from knowledge at all times and in due time. Some of the hidden wisdom of God is buried in the hidden but spiritually fertilized soil of nature, culminating in the spiritual dimension of human physiology. I must say here that man is a unit of a higher energy and, therefore, generates hidden energies within him that are geared towards consolidation of his spiritual and physical being. It is consequent upon this that various aspects of his body vibrate in accordance with the forces of light to pass or emit information to the gross material body. This is the hidden wisdom imbedded in the unit of the super-conscious being-man in order to guide him in the right path. It is unfortunate that many people negate this and pass on in life in conspicuous penury, excruciating and deplorable conditions. One should refrain from confusing personal theology with reality. Today, people simply sweep away and vilify or negate any ideology remotely spiritual, organised religion has organised God’s spirituality out of place by consolidating conventional-cum-ubiquitous halleluiah hysteria belief system bereft of wisdom. Some earthly priests have become our surrogate parents and holy fathers, no matter how ignorant they are or appear to be. This makes some sense in one aspect of organised religion because man must survive by dominating his fellow man through implementation of religious dominion. This is the outcome of naivety and mediocrity, which have become a source of survival to some modern earthly priests. I strongly believe that one day, when the sons of God on earth shall become wise, the prophets that feed on the ignorance of Christ’s congregation shall die of hunger. Until that day, man must search for freedom. As a researcher in the path of spiritual knowledge, knowing that there exists core spirituality in Christian religion, it is too tantalizing to ignore hence my profound interest. Let me sound philosophical here. The writings of antiquity of the 24-year-old Roman scholar Giovanni Pico (1463-94) established the fact on the brilliance of mankind and its privileged place in creation. According to Pico’s parable, after God made the universe and populated it with angelic beings of heaven and the beasts of the earth, each with its specific nature and function, he still needed a creature to “think on the plan of his great work.” In his words, “With the sharpness of his senses, the acuity of his reason, and the brilliance of his intelligence (he is) the interpreter of nature, the model point between eternity and time.” Pico’s landmark Oration opens with an appeal to two authorities. The first is Abdala the Saracen, the 9th century Muslim scholar Abd-Allah ibn Qutaybah, who declared “there was nothing more wonderful in the world than man.” Pico follows with a quotation from the same mysterious sage whom Copernicus also cited the celebrated exclamation of Hermes Trismegistus, “What a great miracle is man.” Asclepius confirms this opinion. Man has been at the centre of everything in nature. The importance of religion is built all around him. The power of spirituality is his nature while ignorance has played a major role in disuniting him with his maker.Some churches are very wary of learning as they frown at novelty and spiritual intellectual challenge. The kind of renaissance the present-day church supports is the kind that will only provide food on the table and cause them to live in affluence and opulence. As a result, any one with the vision, mission and ability to navigate the extraordinary and translate spiritual metaphors cum biblical oxymoron into conventional reality with spiritual and intellectual insight, the same is usually abused, vilified, negated and blasphemed. When shall this end? The Bible says, “A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding, than a hundred blows into a fool” Prov. 17:10. Think about this! “We speak the wisdom of God in a mystery.” In this ground-breaking wisdom there is nothing that happens to man, that nature, which God ordained within him, does not give him earlier and direct information about it. Some know it, many ignore it and few appreciate it and enjoy their relationship with God. Every part of our body is a divine agency (Temple of God) through which God communicate to us. A born-again Christian Brother called me some weeks ago and said to me that the lower part of his left eye was twitching and quivering seriously as he wanted to undertake a serious business venture. He prayed and was prayed for by his pastor who finally instructed him to pay his tithe from the money he was going to buy goods with. The Christian brother obeyed the man of God, paid his tithe and decided to proceed on his journey. But before he went he called me on phone and informed me of the signs he was receiving from the lower part of his left eye. I told him to wait and watch before undertaking the journey. He replied, “Prof, my pastor has prayed for me and God is in control…” He ignored the signs and proceeded on his trip. When he got to Lagos, he picked his money from the bank and on his way he was robbed and shot in his left leg. The bible says, “A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on, and are punished.” Proverbs 22:3. From the bible assertion, one may ask, how does the prudent man foresees the evil and hides himself from it? The signs are means of communication. Your being prudent is based on the understanding and interpretations of such signs. The simple therefore is the man who does not see reason to understand such signs and its corresponding meanings. The fellow becomes like the pastor who prayed and instructed the boy to go ahead against the true instruction from the-Real-Divine that came through signs. Today he is still in the hospital receiving treatment. It could interest you to know that after that incident, the twitching at the lower part of his eyes stopped. How could one interpret such, Omen or superstition? There are many ways God talks to man let us not be hypocritical about this. 