From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors have promised to remain with the party irrespective of the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment on the party’s leadership crisis, even as they assured Nigerians that they are set to displace the ruling APC in 2019.
The chairman of the PDP Governors Forum, Mr Ayodele Fayose stated this in an interview with journalists after a meeting of the forum with some of leaders of the party in Abuja in the early hours of yesterday.
The Supreme Court is expected to deliver its judgment soon in a leadership dispute between the PDP National Chairman, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff and the party’s National Caretaker Committee headed by Senator Ahmed Makarfi.
Fayose, who is also the governor of Ekiti State, added that the governors are confident that the judgment of the apex court will unite the party as there would no victor, no vanquished.
When asked if he has changed his mind about his earlier threat to leave the party if the court rules in favour of Sheriff, the Ekiti state governor said what is important is that himself and Governor Nyesom Wike, who made a similar threat, are still loyal members of the party.
In his words, “You see, what’s important is that as individuals, we are still loyal to this party. Whatever statement, whatever position we have taken before this meeting is still our personal decision, personal statement.
“But look at all the governors standing here, wherever the party goes, we go.
As I said, the party is more important than all of us and we believe in this party. We believe the tomorrow of this party will be great and we are going to stand by this party till the end. This party is beyond everybody, whether Sheriff, Makarfi or Fayose. We are saying again that we all believe in this party. We believe in the tomorrow of this party and we believe that this party will come together united for victory in 2019.”
Fayose further stated that the meeting was essentially for the party leaders to reaffirm their confidence in the PDP ahead of the 2019 general election.
“Our members are looking for and to hear progress being made in the party. And we are pleased that our party, despite our challenges is forging ahead. We are putting our best and we are hopeful all will end well with the party and our members. We are hopeful that the outcome of the court will further unite the party. There will be no winner, there will be no vanquished. We believe in the PDP and we believe in the tomorrow of this party,” Fayose stated.
The meeting which took place at Ekiti Lodge, Asokoro was attended by Governors Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom ), Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa), Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta) and Ebitemi Banigo (Deputy Governor, Rivers).
Others were the Minority Leader, House of Representatives, Leo Ogor; former Abia state governor, Senator Theodore Orji; former Information Minister, Professor Jerry Gana among others.