From Tony Osauzo, Benin Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has sent the nomination of 18 commissioner to the House of Assembly for confirmation. The nominees’ names were forwarded to the Speaker, Justin Okonoboh, through a June 19, 2017 letter, seven months after the governor took office. The letter explained that the 18 nominees, including Yekini Idaiyi (Akoko-Edo), Paul Ohonbamu (Egor), Christopher Adesotu (Ovia South West), Mrs. Magdalene Ohenhen (Esan South East), Emmanuel Usoh (Esan North East), Mr. Jimoh Ijegbai (Owan East), Mr. Joseph Ugheoke (Estako Central), Mariam Abubakar (Estako West), Mika Amanokhai (Estako East) and Monday Osaigbovo (Ovia North East), Mr. Osazee Ero (Orhionmwon), David Osifo (Uhunmwode),  E. Agbale (Esan Central), Mr. Osagie Inegbedion (Igueben), Prof. Yinka Omoregbe (Oredo), Reginald Okun (Owan West), Edorodion Erimona Oye (Ikpoba-Okha) as well as Mr. Amiolemen Osahon (Esan West), are from each of the local government areas in the state. The speaker, after reading the governor’s letter on the floor of the House yesterday, directed the nominees to submit 30 copies of their curriculum vitae to the Assembly. Meanwhile, motorists who violated traffic rules and regulations on the road in Edo State would, henceforth, undergo psychiatric test to ascertain their mental state of mind. Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Samuel Odukoya, who disclosed this yesterday in his office during an interview, said the test will commence on July 1, 2017. He said the flagrant disobedience of traffic rules and regulations by motorists necessitated the psychiatrist test. “By July 1, offences like answering phones while driving, overloading, route violation (one way), beating of traffic among others, would attract psychiatric test before the payment of stipulated fine. “We believe that by the time about 40 people that committed the offence are sent for psychiatric test, pay for the test and N50,000 fine for the violation, it would serve as deterrent to other people to comply with traffic rules,” Odukoya said. 