By Ifechukwu Oragui Am surely convinced that this piece will generate a lot of dust, particularly from the fifth columnists and the enemies of Nigeria who believe that the status quo is prolonged. However, I owe nobody or group of person no apologies. As a free born citizen and a full blooded Nigerian at that, I have the right to express my judgment on any issue or person. It may not be delightful to some people, but it is part of my fundamental human right. In the words of Dim Chukwuemeka  Odimegwu Ojukwu “If you ask  me to choose between slavery and Biafra, I will choose Biafra. If you ask me to choose between marginalization and Biafra, I will choose Biafra. The Nigeria that I am craving for is a place where there will be equal right and justice”. A restructured Nigeria was what Ojukwu hungered for. Furthermore, everyday, I see the possibilities of heart-felt change coming to our country. With the calls from many quarters for the restructuring of our beloved country, Nigeria, there is hope indeed. I can see it, feel it in my bones that the original change is coming to our country. Nigerians are beginning to realize that you can’t hold some section of the country down with a system and think you can have a stable secure Nigeria. The present day Nigeria system is “catch-22” that has no happy ending, and if we restructure, several years of peace and prosperity await us. If we miss it this time around, posterity will live their daily lives in fear, despair and eventually irreparable crises. It is this kind of situation that the American activist and anti-racism, Tim Wise, had in mind when he said “if we don’t figure out a way to create equity, real equity of opportunity and access to good schools, housing, healthcare, and decent paying jobs, we are not going to survive as a productive and healthy society”. Curiously, who is this man that has clout, connections, courage, character, vision and charisma to effect the much awaited heart felt change that Nigerians really deserved? There is no other man than the Waziri of Adamawa, Atiku Abubakar. Yes, am cock-sure! He is the last man standing for that ultimate battle for our political survival. Mention his name, the image that comes to mind is that of inexhaustible defender of the doctrines of democracy. devotedly, propelled by the benchmark of equity, fairness and justice. Atiku is one leader who abhors nepotism, tribalism and all other primordial vestiges that are stagnating us as people. He has the capacity, acceptability and courage to restructure Nigeria and good things will start happening. Without doubt, any political baggage against him is within the context of politics and there is no prove within. In addition, during the launch of the book “we are all Biafrans” written by Chido Onumah the journalist  activist in Abuja last year, Atiku sang the only song that has been in his system “It is time to restructure the country  to make it stronger and united, Nigeria is not working as it should be. We must refrain from the habit of assuming that anyone calling  for the restructuring of our federation is working for the break-up of the country”. Truly this beacon bearer is pointing the way forward for our dear country. Love to hate his wide spread and ubiquitous personality or even hate to love his great tenacity in the face of intimidating odds; he remains the last man standing to restructure our great country. He is detribalized Nigerian and most reform-minded politician of our time. Atiku is a renowned philanthropist and humanist. This is evident in the many scholarship his foundation has awarded to thousands of indigent students from all over the country. His milk of human kindness is unfathomable; from the bridge he has built across politics, culture and religions. His intimidating political profile, local and international connections. Acceptability among his fellow politicians, transparent and purposeful leadership and crusade against social injustice has distinguished him among other politicians. He is a people-oriented leader, who is never wavering in the cause he believes in and of serving people. His love for egalitarianism and his astute commitment to the peace and progress of the country have won him the admiration of many Nigerians. Happily, with Ohaneze Ndigbo’s stand on restructuring, Ndigbo are trying to rediscover themselves. Truly, Igbo Presidency is like putting the cart before the horse, there won’t be any movement at all, while restructuring is like putting the horse before the cart, of course fast movement is evenly assured. Again, the present day Nigeria is like having a road with many potholes, you can’t run at the top speed. While restructuring is like repairing the road to enjoy your driving without stress. There are many people who will not care or crave to be a politician, if their children can go to school in good public transport system, they switch on and power comes, turn their taps and water flows and have well paid jobs, not everybody will want to be a politician. Many people going there is to be able to have all those things that could not be provided by the leadership. If we restructure, all other things will take their cue. Lastly, for unity to be meaningful it has to be creative, not the unity of Jonah in the belly of whale, but the unity of holy matrimony. Now is the time we need to stop just pulling people out of the river, we need to go upstream and find out why they are falling in and do permanent justice to it. IPOB and MASSOB that are clamouring for break-up, feel certain injustice has been metted out to my beloved race, And he who goes to equity must do so with clean hands. Only restructuring will silence all agitations and ethnic champions. Restructuring is not a project for the faint-hearted or for those with short memory. It needs statesman and a progressive thinker like Atiku Abubakar. If there is only one prayer that this arrow-head that nipped OBJ’s third term agenda in the bud is asking God to do for him, is for the Almighty God to give him the opportunity to restructure Nigeria and good things will, by its own nature, start happening. Oragui writes from Lagos. 