From: Aloysius Attah, Onitsha Ahead of the November governorship election in Anambra State, a group, Anambra Consensus Project (ACP) has commenced face to face interactive sessions with all the governorship aspirants in the state. Anambra Consensus Project is a non-governmental organisation that strives to create tight associations and relationships amongst Anambrarians and Anambra residents in bringing relevant issues before the people for awareness, understanding and decision making. President of the group, Dr. Emeka Eze, a Prince of the Ukpo Royal Kingdom said the essence of the interaction apart from making the political environment lively in the state   is to provide an avenue where all the aspirants can be properly scrutinized by the people. Eze noted that even in the United States of America, all political aspirants to elective positions are well acquainted with the electorates ahead of primary elections where the final candidates for elections are selected for elections. He noted that even the incumbent Governor, Chief Willie Obiano will be invited in the forum while the electorates will have the ultimate choice to decide whether there is need for change of baton or continuity in Anambra. Dr Alex Obiogbolu of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Chike Obidigbo of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Mr. Godwin Chukwunenye Ezeemo of the Progressives People’s Alliance (PPA) featured in the maiden edition of the interactive session yesterday where each of the aspirants at separate sessions outlined reasons for their decision to   vie for the governorship seat in the state. They were also asked several questions from the audience which they attended to while the session according to the organizers will continue till all the aspirants are exhausted and the political process leading to the election of the governor concluded. Obiogbolu in his session argued that with him as Anambra governor under PDP, the state though not broken can be made better while Obidigbo in his own summation said Anambra is better off as an APC state while his administration will be synonymous with job creation. Ezeemo said he will use security votes to develop the 21 local government councils in the state.