Over the years, many industries and occupations have come and gone. As jobs outlived their usefulness, the industry dies out. One industry that can never die out is agriculture. People must have food, shelter, and clothing. All of these needs, especially food, depend on agriculture.
Agriculture can be an excellent investment if, like any other business, it’s planned carefully and managed efficiently. Like many other forms of agribusiness it takes experience to realize good returns.
However, many investors enter the industry with insufficient training and capital, expect overnight break-even and then manage their business like a hobby. Many of their designs are inappropriate for their particular species and local climate and advice is taken from people not directly associated with the industry.
Jovana Farms can reduce your risk and expenses substantially with advice gained over many years of experience in livestock farming and farm set-up.
Our experienced construction professionals include civil, electrical, quality technicians and safety professionals.
Whether it’s farm construction management or providing onsite engineering services, our team has the experience to ensure a project is completed safely within budget and schedule.
Our farm design, management, layouts are designed to be compact and time efficient. Pens, ponds, cages and breeding facilities maximize the use of land space while maintaining the goal of maximizing growth rates and production of first grade farm produce. Functional farm designed and built based on agricultural principles guarantee high profit and good rate of returns on investment.
Jovana Farms delivers complete technology on Intensive and Extensive Systems based on agro farming to meet your budgets; even if you don’t have substantial capital we know how you can improvise.
If you desire to invest in agricultural production in any form, we are ready and experienced to train, guide and mentor you wisely from site survey and selection, production forecasts, preparation of submissions for lending and licensing authorities, location of project set-ups, feasibility report, farm design and construction, design of accommodation for farm staff, including interpretative materials and landscaping, emphasis on bio-security and improving efficiency of intensive farming system, etc.
With the quality breeding animals from our company, we can guarantee the output of your farm if we build it.
When you want to invest in agribusiness, we won’t tell you how the Leopard got its spots. We don’t tell stories when you want to invest in food production.
At Jovana Farms, storytelling isn’t one of our strong points; that’s why we stick to what we do best: telling you everything you need to know and do to get the full benefits of your agricultural ventures, even before you acquire the land.
Call or visit us today to know more about agriculture business you can establish, because with us, nothing is hidden.
We have continued to research modern methods and have offered practical assistance to numerous people who are interested in setting up their farms in any part of the country.
Jovana Farms Consultancy Services is The Right Partner to lead the Way. We help farmers to set up formidable farms! Our Livestock consultancy services offer hands-on-solutions for farmers to improve on their Livestock farming ventures.
1. Develop the animal farmers standard of excellence
We see to sustainable farm set up and farmers training needs and basic operational requirements. Workable management methods are focused where each individual farmer’s circumstances are taken into consideration as they may vary depending on location, climatic conditions, breeds and management intensity.
2. Holistic and strategic thinking is what we offer
It’s about driving day-to-day operations and making a difference in your farming venture.
Our services cover all West African countries.
The aim is to design practical solutions that enable livestock farmers to take corrective measures in order to improve profitability, production, reproduction and sustainability. We would like farmers to gain from this experience.
3. Help set up new farming ventures.
We also offer prospective farmers consultancy to start up operations. Costing, budgeting, financial support, planning, market research, procurement and many more aspects are covered whereby prospective farmers can take the giant leap into the livestock industry with good planning forming the backbone to future prosperity. Turnkey solutions are also offered with holistic management contributions.
Interested customers are advised to send us an enquiry so that an assessment can be made on how best to address the consultancy process. To address key issues, information is essential and visitations are required to offer practical solutions.
Call Jovana Farms Consultancy Services to lead the way for sustainable farming venture on 08033262808 or visit www.jovanafarms.com