…As APC inaugurates state caucus From Chidi Nnadi, Enugu The Federal Government has secured a $50 million loan from African Finance Corporation (AFC) to upgrade Enugu/Nsukka Urban Water Scheme.
Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu disclosed this, at the weekend, during the inauguration of  Enugu State Caucus of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Okechukwu, who is a member of the 37-man caucus chaired by the state Chairman of APC, Dr. Ben Nwoye, said they are making frantic efforts to key Enugu State into the Social Investment Programme of President Muhammadu Buhari.
He also pointed out that president Buhari has started fixing dilapidated federal roads in the South East, as well as revamp Enugu Coal.
“We are making efforts to see that our members in Enugu here benefit from the Social Investment Programme. If you are a plumber, barber, electrician, motor mechanic, you forward your name through the leadership of the party.
“If you are not, but, you have somebody, you come forward with his name, because we want to make sure the money, when it comes will be channeled to those who will make proper use of it. We also have the cooperative scheme as part of the social investment,” Okechukwu said.
Earlier, while inaugurating the caucus, Nwoye urged members to bear in mind the spirit and letters of the party’s constitution, which mandatss the caucus to act as the conscience of the party.
Nwoye described the ceremony as remarkable as former governors, senators and former speaker, who are now members of the caucus were not members of the party two years ago.
“These are great men and women, who we know that with their contributions, not just financial, but by directive and direction, this party will move forward. We now want to constitute the conscience of the party to help us direct the party because we have a date with the Lion Building, Enugu’s Government House in 2019,” Nwoye said.
Among members of the 37-member Enugu State APC caucus are former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, former Enugu State governor, Sullivan Chime, Senator Jim Nwobodo, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geofrey Onyeama, Group Captain (retd) J. Orji, Director General of Voice of Nigeria, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, Special Adviser, Justice Reform, Mrs Juliet Ibekaku, G.B. Onoh, Sam Onyishi, Okey Ezea, among others.  South East National Vice chairman of APC, Chief Emma Eneukwu hailed Nwoye, and his executive committee members for their vibrancy. google_ad_client = "ca-pub-3470379246590210";
    google_ad_slot = "1805115088";
    google_ad_width = 300;
    google_ad_height = 250;