• School proprietors and education stakeholders urge government, at various levels, to beef up security around our schoolchildren By Bianca Iboma Some members of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, Ogun State Zone have advised schools to beef up security in their various schools following the recent abduction of schoolchildren in the country. The members gave this advice during the 2017 Children’s Day celebration held at the Royal College playground Iyesi-Ogun State. While the Proprietor of Mofola School, Evangelist Adeoye Akinmosi, wants school proprietors to profile anyone they intend to employ even as he appeals to government, security experts to partner with them so they can put an end to kidnapping, criminal activities carried out within school environment, the Chairperson of the planning committee of the celebration, and Proprietress, Pams Private School, Mrs. Fatima Musa, said that government and education stakeholders should come up with ideas that can help students in schools to study without fear as nobody knows the next target. Chairman of the Association, Pastor Mrs. Comfort Orji said that children are God’s heritage and must be protected from any form of child labour or molestation. Noting the welfare of the children to be of paramount importance, she appealed to all and sundry to see their protection as an important aspect of our existence. Pastor Mrs. Olabisi Olatomi, Proprietress, Dalos Schools, bemoaning the high prevalence of violence against children in all the states of the federation noted that on this special day of celebrating children every one must take action to stop violence of any kind against them. The Zonal Education Officer, Ado-Odo/Ota, Mrs Oluwatosin Oloko who was represented by Mrs. Ruth Adigun implored teachers to teach them on how to appreciate their indigenous languages, dresses, cuisines, music and dances at all levels of social interaction. Chairman of the occasion, General Manager, Sales and Marketing Learn Africa Publication Mr. Alaaya Mujeeb, who was represented by Segun Kujenya, commended the association for building a bond among the children which he said is another aspect of education apart from classroom activities. He charged school proprietors to be concerned with what the children learn especially in this era of digital technology so they don’t come under the negative influence of the media. 