Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, on Monday, commended the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) for its efforts so far, to ensure the July 22 local government election is free, fair and credible. The governor gave the commendation while swearing in two new members of the LASIEC board – Prof. Gabriel Babawale and Dr Noah Jinadu – and some other appointees in Ikeja. Other appointees were for the Public Procurement Agency, Audit Service Commission as well as the State’s Safety Commission Ambode said the appointees were chosen based on their track record, integrity and credibility, urging them to also add value to corporate governance in the state. “Your appointment is a call to public service and I am very confident that you will justify the trust the government has reposed in your ability and capacity to add value to the corporate governance, growth and development of the state. “Let me also add that your appointment is an invitation and a privilege to be part of history as we lay a solid foundation for the future of Lagos; a Lagos that our children and their children will enjoy for many years to come,” he said. The governor said the appointment of Babawale and Jinadu to the Board of LASIEC was necessitated by the exit of two members who had completed their tenure. He said that the provision of the law setting up the Commission required that the Board comprise the Chairman and six members. “With this appointment therefore, LASIEC is properly constituted to conduct the forthcoming Local Government elections in the State,” Ambode said. On the other agencies with new appointees, the governor noted that the Public Procurement Agency and Audit Service Commission were very important. He said the two key agencies were established mainly to ensure transparency and accountability in the procurement process as well as the management and application of public resources. The governor urged the new appointees to bring their professionalism to bear to further strengthen their operations. “I charge you to ensure strict application of relevant rules and never to hesitate in applying appropriate sanctions when necessary,” Ambode said. He also charged the new Director-General of the State Safety Commission, Mr Hakeem Dickson, to show leadership and deliver on the mandate of the commission. Ambode said it had a mandate to prepare and adequately handle emergency situations through continuous public education and enlightenment as well as enforcement of safety precautions and rules. Prof. Gabriel Babawale, who responded on behalf of other appointees, thanked the governor for their appointments assuring him that he and his colleagues would key into his vision to make Lagos a Smart City. “We will cherish it very seriously and deliver on our mandate. This is a call to duty and we are prepared for the task,” Babawale said. (NAN) 