From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye and Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday, last night met with chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) across the country at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun was in attendance alongside some top members of the ruling party.
Speaking to State House Correspondents at the end of the closed door meeting, leader of the delegation and chairman, Lagos chapter of the party, Henry Ajomale expressed satisfaction with the implementation of policies under the Muhammadu Buhari administration
He who said the vision of the APC government was tailored towards improving the lives of Nigerians, expressed joy over President Buhari’s improved health.
“We feel that we should come and pay a courtesy call on the acting president, a member of our party. So, we discussed at length the situation in the country and our anxiety on the health of the president. We are grateful that God in his infinite mercy has made him whole, which is very critical and important for the vision that we have for this country as APC government,” he said.
Ajomale said Osinbajo briefed the delegation on the state of the nation, the economy and the solution and antidotes to some of the myraid of problems facing th country.
“We are very impressed with the situation, we will go back to our states and let the people know that the government has very good intention and we should be part and parcel of the government in order to ensure that the poor people of this country are getting a better deal,” he noted.
Meanwhile, Osinbajo has warned youths fanning embers of disunity to avoid repeating errors of the tragic past.
The acting president in his keynote address at the opening ceremony of the National Seminar on Unity in Diversity: Security and  National Development, held at the DSS’s Institute of Security Studies in Abuja, urged Nigerians to reappraise hate speeches that were threatening the corporate existence of Nigeria.
For successfully navigating Nigeria through a bloody civil war, Osinbajo described Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd), as a living symbol of Nigeria’s unity.
“His greatness lies in his policy of no victor no vanquished when he began the process of healing a nation doomed and down by a three year civil war.”    