With the aim of leveraging on local strength and expertise, Canon Central and North Africa, an imaging and business solutions conglomerate, has partnered with localised service centres Technology Distribution (TD), Ensure Services and Kontakt, to create a unique business-to-consumer experience. The Canon-authorised service centre initiative is designed to support the imaging community in Nigeria, while creating access to repair and support for industry professionals, businesses and photography enthusiasts. Through the three authorised service partners, Canon will offer after-sales product repair services in eight locations across Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. The service centres will support all B2C products including DSC, DSLR, professional video, OPP inkjet and Laser-printers, projectors and calculators under the Canon Central and North Africa warranty programme. Canon country manager, Omotayo Omodia, explained that Canon celebrates a wonderful achievement that helps drive its corporate strategy. Omodia said, “At Canon, one of our goals is to gain market leadership through our product offerings while establishing a relationship with Nigeria’s photographers and videographers. “We pride ourselves in world-class customer satisfaction through our cameras and printers and we are committed to offering the most innovative imaging technology. A partnership with three renowned service partners, Ensure, TD and Kontak, will drive home our message of customer satisfaction while bringing our customers closer to the Canon brand. “We hope to continue to build positive interactions and friendships in Nigeria while bringing next generation innovations to our customers.” Speaking on the partnership, sales and marketing director B2C, Canon Central and North Africa, Somesh Adukia,  said: “Nigeria is a country with limitless opportunities, resources and potential where creativity is a craft breathing in the veins of its people through music, art and imagery. We believe that the ability to harness these potentials through partnerships and integration will greatly strengthen our competitive advantage and add unequivocal benefits to both our partners and customers. “The partnership was an important pillar in the brand’s ‘closer to the customer’ strategy which has been one of Canon’s key components for growth in Africa. “This is a really exciting time to be part of the imaging industry and we’re proud to be raising the bar throughout the market. This partnership clearly amplifies our commitment to bringing our customers closer to our industry-leading products while helping them to maintain the quality that encourages them to have fun with imaging through our ‘Big Partnership, Trusted Services’ motto. “Our setting up of a dedicated entity in Nigeria last year and the introduction of three specialised service providers is our commitment to providing the best possible service to our customers in Nigeria. We are also working towards establishing more collection points for our customers, in case they are located far away from the service locations”. 