By Fred Ezeh For pupils of Louisville Girls Secondary School, Abuja, and their parents, there are special ways to entertain an audience. For several hours, recently, they held the audience spellbound with scintillating dance. The event was to mark the 10th anniversary of the school, but it turned out to be a crowd-puller and one outing that audience would cherish for a long time. The visibly elated principal of the school, Rev. Sr. Gertrude Elelegu, could not hide her joy. She promised to uphold the academic and moral standard bequeathed by her predecessors, in spite of societal pressure to compromise on standards. The principal insisted that the school, built strictly for girls, was mandated to inculcate the best of academic, spiritual and moral standards in future leaders, wives, mothers and caregivers, among others, and also prepare them for a world of exploits and opportunities. Sr. Elelegu, who spoke at the National Ecumenical Centre, Abuja, during the 10th year anniversary of the school, stated that the school would not derail from the original idea behind its establishment, with a renewed commitment to fulfil that purpose, which she said was being realised, going by the barrage of testimonies of academic, spiritual and moral transformation from parents and their daughters. She said: “The testimonies are confirmation that Louisville School has strictly kept the counsel of the founders. It has provided a platform for each student to realise her potential. We simply allow them to take the lead in self-discovery and follow them up with encouragement and guidance needed to actualise them. “Parents have equally attested to the amazing changes in their daughters, particularly in utterances, physical and mental development, academics and other moral behaviours expected of an ideal Christian woman. It is an indication that we are steadfast in fulfiling the idea behind the establishment of the school.” The principal acknowledged the efforts of the school’s management as well as parents for their trust and confidence in the ability of the school to mould the academic and moral destiny of their children, promising to sustain the momentum amid financial and other societal challenges, which were not peculiar to the school. In spite of the obvious achievements, the school principal appealed to parents and other philanthropists to support the school financially to enable it procure modern facilities that would aid teaching and learning in the school. She said that the school needed facilities like a sick bay, chapel, laboratories and other structures that would help boost and strengthen the spiritual and academic life of the students. 