…Monarch warns against hate speech From: Clement Adeyi,  Osogbo Ooni of Ife,  Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi  and Young Entrepreneurs of Nigeria (YEN) are collaborating to empower about 8,000 Nigerian youth entrepreneurs for socio-economic development and their well being. Daily Sun gathered that the move was aimed at helping the youth populace to develop business ideas and equip them with adequate capital to actualise their dreams to set up businesses for entreprenueural development and economic survival. Ooni Ogunwusi, who is the grand patron of the YEN, said his support was in line with his poise to fulfil his promise to help youths in carving niches for themselves to eke out a living in the wake of the unemployment crisis bedeviing the nation. “I completely support the positive initiative of the youths to empower Nigerian youths and make them responsible,” he said. National President of YEN, Chris Kohol, said that the association had empowered over 5,000 youths entrepreneurs in the past 16 months. He also disclosed that YEN had scheduled a Youth Enpowerment Summit for next Monday to orientate the youth on empowerment initiatives. He said the summit would involved a tour of the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria with over 30,000 delegates, 1000 exhibitors and 60 guest speakers participating. Ogunwusi, however, called on the youth  to jettison activities capable of destabilising the country and engage in programmes  that would promote the unity and peace. He specifically urged them to eschew hate speech and never allow anybody to use them to achieve an illicit purpose. The monarch implored youths to go through Nigerian history and get the requisite inspiration for nationhood. “All the hate speeches and blame games should stop. It is not good for this country. We need to go back to history and learn from how our forefathers started the struggle for emancipation in their 20s and 30s. “I am urging the leadership of YEN to challenge other youths for positive things and build a country of our choice and desire,” the monarch said. “Let us stop hate speech. I want to implore the youths to come together  and support the government. Nigerian youths should wake up from slumber. We should stop being used and dumped by politicians.