Residents, students and members of the academic community of Ambrose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma, Edo State were last Saturday treated to an unforgettable evening of fun and merriment at the Globacom’s flagship entertainment show, Glo Mega Music Nationwide Tour. The telecommunications outfit literarily brought down the roof on the fun seekers, who took time out to be part of the show. The success of the show was encapsulated by the president of the University’s Students Union Government (SUG), Comrade Cletus Oribhabor, who commended the company for deeming it fit “to bring this world-class show to our campus free of charge to the delight of our students and members of the university community.” Oribhabor, who spoke at the Cordelia Agbebaku Auditorium, venue of the show, which paraded the best of the nation’s entertainment industry, said: “Globacom has once again helped in projecting the image of AAU, our own ‘Another Anointed University’ as peaceful, organised, loving and accommodating in all aspects of life. A show of this magnitude can only take place in a peaceful atmosphere, and I feel personally fulfilled that this show is happening at a time we are at the helm of affairs of the SUG”. Attracting a large crowd of students and residents of the university town, the Glo Mega Music Nationwide Tour, which had toured 14 other locations before coming to AAU, paraded five A-List musicians including Omawumi, Runtown, Flavour, Phyno and Olamide. The nation’s new R&B discovery, Axterix, was also available for the evening of fun, which was anchored by the duo of Nollywood divas, Uche Jombo and Ebube Nwagbo. Nollywood veteran, Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD) led two other movie stars, Angela Okorie and Victor Osuagwu to make celebrity guest appearances at the event. The auditorium was filled to capacity, and the organisers of the show had to provide a giant outdoor screen to enable the crowd outside the hall to be part of the fun and entertainment.  It was also a herculean task for both the organisers and the security agents to bring Phyno and Olamide into the hall to perform as a mammoth crowd of students and workers besieged the back entrance to catch a glimpse of their favourite artistes. Summing up her experience after the show, Caring Ogbegie, a student in the Department of Microbiology of the university, said: “In my three-year sojourn on this campus, I have never witnessed this type of show and guess what, when the SUG guys said all these stars would be coming, I never believed them.”