The Anambra Equity Group (AEG), a frontline association for equity and good governance has endorsed an aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Obinna Uzoh. The group, which comprises mainly business owners, professionals and students from various tertiary institutions endorsed him during a visit to Uzoh’s campaign office in Awka where they were well received, announced its endorsement of the aspiration. One of the leaders of the group, Chidi Okoye, explained that, having assessed Uzoh who is a renowned business mogul and philanthropist and his other counterparts, both in the APC as well as in other political parties they came to the conclusion that he is the most suitable and qualified to become the next governor of the State and the only aspirant with the requisite capacity to take the state to the level of development desired by its citizens. According to Okoye, “we have painstakingly assessed all the aspirants who have declared intention to contest the elections and we have found that Uzoh is the man for the job. He is the answer to all the questions currently being asked. “Uzoh comes from Ihiala in Anambra South senatorial district which has only had a single term of four years under Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju, whereas the Anambra Central has had 11 years in power and Anambra North has also had a single term of four years, with an overwhelming agreement on lack of confidence and poor performance. Thus, equity dictates that the ticket goes to the South. “On the place of the Church in the Anambra political arena, none of the other aspirants is widely accepted by the Catholic, Anglican and other religious denominations, like Uzoh. He has done so well for the churches and other non-religious organisations. He has been recognised by the Pope as a Knight of St. Gregory and therefore the only Papal Knight in the race. He has also been recognised by the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) as a distinguished friend and patriot, as a result of many years of accomplished achievements to God and humanity. Other religious and non-religious bodies have also bestowed him with other deserved honours.” On Uzoh’s personality, the group said: “Uzoh is a man of the people and is popular and respected. Indeed, he has done so much for the good people of Anambra State and beyond, with his personal resources and this has so endeared him to the people. He has awarded scholarships to several students in primary, secondary, colleges of education, polytechnics and universities across the country with special scholarship award to indigenes of Anambra State in Medicine, Law, Accountancy and Engineering, etc. “He single-handedly built and donated a three-storied building for the Law Faculty of the Madonna University, Okija, Anambra State, constructed and equipped several computer and science laboratories in secondary and tertiary institutions in the state and also distributed text books and instructional materials to schools across the State. He has established small-scale enterprises for indigenes of Anambra State, and provided boreholes, rural electrification and donated transformers to towns and villages . He singlehandedly built the All Saints Catholic Church, Ihiala and completed the St. Silas Anglican Cathedral, Ihiala. He built and donated a three-storey youth hostel at the Holy Family Youth Village, Amansea, Awka to the Catholic Archdiocese of Onitsha for use by students of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka.” Still on Uzoh’s philanthropic gestures, the group said: “He also singlehandedly built and donated an ICT and Skill Acquisition Centre at the All Hallows Seminary, Onitsha, donated drugs for free medical outreaches to St. Charles Borromeo Hospital Onitsha for some selected towns and villages in Anambra North senatorial zone, donated relief materials to flood victims in Anambra East and West Local Government Areas, Ogbaru Local Government Area and Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State, and assisted Amansea Community with portable water during Ezu River pollution. Indeed the list is endless.” While thanking the group for its painstaking efforts to ensure equity and good governance in Anambra State, Uzoh promised to live up to the expectations of the citizens, who he said were committed to effecting a positive change in government on November 18.