The Federal Government, on Wednesday, said it has developed a national strategy on competitiveness in raw materials and products development in the country. Director-General, Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Dr. Hussaini Ibrahim,  said in a statement issued in Abuja by Mr Chuks Ngaha, Deputy Director, Public Affairs Unit of the council. According to him, the strategy was initiated by Minister of Science and Technology,  Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, to harness Nigeria’s potentials in research and development institutions. “The National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development in Nigeria was generated to enable the country attain sustainable socioeconomic growth and development. “Today, particularly with the recession, Nigeria is confronted with the challenges of business failures, factory closures, high unemployment and inflationary pressures. “Also we are plagued with depleted foreign exchange earnings and reserve, drastic devaluation of the national currency, huge arrears of workers’ salaries and pension, among others.’’ Ibrahim said the strategy which would be in partnership with industries and businesses would aid to accelerate and re-direct the pathways to recovery and growth of the economy. The director general said the initiative was aimed at attaining global competitiveness in raw materials and products development with the attendant boosts in local and international confidence in Made-in-Nigeria products and services. Hussaini said the unique features of the strategy include forging partnerships among research and development institutions with industries, businesses and entrepreneurs towards providing solid and quality national infrastructure. It also aims at ensuring coordinated mapping of some 100 Nigerian raw materials and products on the United Nations harmonized classification scheme map. “Alignment of the nation’s research and development institutions with industrial sectors of the Manufactures’ Association of Nigeria (MAN). “Corresponding charting and linkage of several Ministries, Departments and Agencies, the organized private sector in line with the United Nations Standard International Trade Classification scheme. “Emphasis on the globally-accepted results-based management logical frameworks for the implementation of all components.’’ Hussaini said the successful implementation of the strategy would be far-reaching and beneficial to Nigeria as it would enhance alliance among Nigerian scientists and entrepreneurs, industries and businesses. (NAN)