Fan and well wishers of late Princess Diana on Wednesday left floral tributes at the gates of her Kensington palace home in London, as the world marks 20 years of her tragic death in a car accident in Paris. Alos, the Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry, also paid tribute to their late mother Diana, Princess of Wales with a poignant visit to her memorial garden at Kensington Palace on the eve of the anniversary of her death. Sheltering from the downpour with umbrellas William and Harry, joined by the Duchess of Cambridge, toured the White Garden, which has been planted in the Princess’s memory to mark two decades since she died. Children look at tributes attached to the Golden Gates of Kensington Palace, London, ahead of the 20th anniversary of Princess Diana’s death on Wednesday Aug 30, 2017. Photo/PA Wire Recently, Diana’s sons spoke publicly for the first time in two candid television interviews about their traumatic loss which took place 20 years ago. The programme broadcast on the BBC, was the last time they will publicly discuss their torment, according to aides. In it, William said his mother was a ‘ray of light in a grey world’. Diana, 7 Days gave the behind-the scenes story of the week before her funeral and featured some of the major figures at the time including former prime minister Tony Blair and senior royal aides. The documentary, made by US director Henry Singer, also saw the princes speak about their emotions at the time. Harry revealed the best lesson his mother taught her sons was ‘be yourself in everything you do and give as much as you can’. He told the cameras: ‘It’s never going to be easy for the two of us to talk about our mother, but 20 years on seems like a good time to remind people of the difference that she made, not just to the Royal Family, but also to the world. ‘If I can be even a fraction of what she was, I will be proud and hopefully make her proud.’ In the documentary William also said that at the time he could not understand why the public were ‘crying and wailing’ when ‘they didn’t really know’ his mother. But he added: ‘Looking back, I have learned to understand what it was she gave the world and what she gave a lot of people.’
Neither William nor Harry are expected to take part in any official engagements on the anniversary of their mother’s death on Thursday. Charles has faced renewed criticism in the run up to the anniversary of his ex-wife’s death in a Paris car crash. But Harry praised his father’s bravery in breaking the news to him and his brother at the time, adding: ‘He was going through the same grieving process as well.’ The brothers praised the Queen, who faced an unprecedented public backlash for staying at Balmoral with them in the days following the crash. William said: ‘I think it was a very hard decision for my grandmother to make. She felt very torn between being a grandmother to William and Harry and her Queen role.’ After the programme aired, thousands of people took to Twitter to praise the Princes as well as reveal they had been left ‘in tears’. (Source: Daily Mail) 