… Assure customers of service centres Technology Distributor (TD) and Freetel, a Japanese firm, have assured potential customers that there is no cause for worry because their partneship has infused service centres that would cater for any complaint that could crop up later. The organisations were quick to point out that customers may not find any reason to complain or repair except for man-made faults because Japanese products are durable. Freetel also disclosed that its smartphones were Google GMS-certified and quality-checked by Japanese engineering experts. The GMS certification is the confirmation that a specific device meets Googles’ performance requirements and properly runs the Google apps. At the media unveiling of a series of devices recently, Managing Director, TD Mobile, Mrs. Gozy Ijogun, said, “As a key driver of the technology revolution in Africa, TD Mobile has always strived to bring the latest and best of technology products to Nigeria and West Africa by extension. In line with this, Freetel and TD Mobile have entered an exclusive partnership to bring Japanese smartphones to Nigeria. We believe we can capture a major market share with the help of our extensive distribution reach and strategic partnership with operators, dealers and retailers.” During his demonstration, Freetel Vice President, International sales, Mr. Eugene Yoshioka, disclosed that in technology, change happens in waves and a new wave comes every 10 years. He said that four billion smartphones were sold in 2016 and based on this, “Nigeria is the market for Freetel and we are looking forward to reach out to Nigerian consumers with our latest smartphones. We plan to invest in the country with a full-fledged subsidiary to support sales, marketing and after-sales support. We are glad that we are partnering with the most powerful and trusted partner of the region TD Africa. “As a subsidiary of ICT distribution powerhouse, Technology Distribution Limited (TD Africa) will add the Freetel brand to a growing list of international brands represented in line with its status as the biggest mobile devices distributor in the West African sub-region. “Considering its wide reach, distribution network, massive retailer base and unmatched presence in major Nigerian cities and other West African capitals, the partnership will see the company deploy its latest capacity in taking the line-up of products from the Freetel stable to every section in the metropolis as well as every nook and cranny in the hinterland.” He added that Freetel would be available in the market across 10 major cities in Nigeria, including Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano and Ibadan this month. The Freetel devices are currently available in 20 countries, including Egypt and Ghana.