By Romanus Okoye A Lagos-based landlord, Ishola Idris, and his tenant, Linus Okonkwo, have been arraigned before a magistrate’s court sitting at Ikeja for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl. Idris was alleged to have deflowered the girl in January this year, while his tenant, Okonkwo, raped her in March.
Similarly, a 53-year-old man, David Ajayi, was yesterday arraigned before a magistrate’s court in Lagos for allegedly defiling his neighbour’s eight-year-old daughter. Ajayi, who resides at 5, Moshalashi Street, Somolu, Lagos, is facing a charge of defilement.
The two charges brought against the landlord and his tenant read: “That you, Ishola Idris, sometime in January 2017 at 30, Celestial Road, Igando, Lagos, in Lagos Magisterial District, did unlawfully defile one 13-year-old girl-child (names withheld) by having sexual intercourse with her.
“That you, Linus Okonkwo, sometime in March 2017 at 30, Celestial Road, Igando, Lagos, in Lagos Magisterial District, did unlawfully and sexually assaulted one 13-year-old girl by penetrating into her vagina with your penis.”
The accused pleaded not guilty to the allegations. The alleged crime, according to the police, is punishable under Section 261 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015.
They were later granted bail by Chief Magistrate Bolanle Osunsanmmi in the sum of N500,000 with two sureties. The matter was adjourned to October 12, 2017 for trial.
According to Police Prosecutor, Clifford Ogu, Ajayi committed the offence on August 15 at his residence. Ogu said the accused lured the girl into his room on the pretext of sending her on an errand before defiling her.
“The accused shut the door, defiled her and asked her not to tell anybody. She, however, told her mother when she felt pains in her private part,” he told the court.
The offence contravened Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015, and carries a penalty of life imprisonment.
The accused, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge.
In her ruling, Chief Magistrate Taiwo Akanni granted the accused bail in the sum of N250,000 with two sureties in like sum and adjourned the case until September 6, 2017, for mention. 