A Non-Governmental Organisation, Advocacy Working Group (AWG), in Ogun State, has been assured of the legislative support and assistance in its drive at improving maternal and child mortality rate in Ogun State. Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Suraj Adekunmbi, gave the assurance while playing host to the executive members of the Group in his office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. According to a statement made available by the Media Officer of the Group, Mrs. Waliyat Odemakin, note that the legislative arm of government in the state would continue to accord other arms that required support at implementing it’s policies and programmes, stating that the existence working relatationship would further promote the health sector for the wellbeing of the people particularly women and children. Adekunmbi maintained that maternal and mortality rate would be reduced to the barest minimum in the state and the country at large, if proper group was given priority to serve adequately and to the best of their knowledge. He added that the concern of the Group to enhance increase uptake and access to family planning contraceptive rate as well as effective service delivery across the health facilities in the state was a good and welcome development. Earlier, the Chairman of the Group, Mrs. Kemi Balogun said family planning had been confirmed as means to combating the challenges of maternal and child mortality rate, noting that utmost priority should be placed on child spacing. Balogun appreciated the concerted efforts of all the three tiers of government in the state on health care service delivery, adding that the remarkable achievements recorded by the state on reproductive health care particularly family planning had attracted more development partners, non-governmental organisation and civil society organisations. “This group appreciate the effort of the Ogun State government and we will continue to associate and advocate to appropriate quarters for the state to achieve more in her efficient health care service delivery.” Balogun said. The visit has in attendance, the Deputy Speaker, Hon, Kunle Oluomo, Chairman House Committee on Health, Hon, Akinpelu Aina and the Clark of the House, Alhaji Lanre Bisiriyu.