By Moshood Adebayo Lagos State Ministry of the Environment has cleared over 12,600 metric tonnes of waste from over 80 locations across the state within 10 days in an exercise tagged: ‘Operation Deep Clean’. The project, in collaboration with Visionscape is a clean-up of refuse dumps in the state, which began last month. Commissioner for the Environment, Dr. Babatunde Adejare, in a statement, affirmed government’s resolve to rid the state of refuse heaps and solicited support of residents for the soon-to-be launched ‘Cleaner Lagos Initiative’. “Since the exercise began, over 80 locations across the state have been covered and we are building momentum in spite of the heavy rainfall this season. We are building a new culture of waste management and optimistic that all communities will see overall benefits of this drive to put an integrated waste management system in place,” he said. Meanwhile, residents have commended the Operation Deep Clean, saying the impact would be phenomenal once it spreads to all parts of the state. Speaking in an interview, Mrs Abiodun Yusuff, a shop owner in Egbeda area of the state, said the good job being done by the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode-led government deserved commendation, adding that the government was silently revolutionising waste management in the state. “I was getting worried about the seriousness of the government to address waste management because at some point and even in some areas now, you still find heaps of refuse on the road. But I commend the government officials for the good job they did in our area. My only charge to them is that they should not relent but keep on cleaning everywhere and ensure that the state is free of waste,” she said. A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Prince Yakub Abiola Aromasodu also commended the government for the prompt evacuation of debris from Akobi Crescent in Surulere, saying the development attests to the commitment of the Ambode-led administration to address waste management in line with international best practices. Over 80 locations have been cleared up spanning from Abijo along Lekki Expressway in Eti Osa Local Government, Oke Afa Bridge around Oke Afa Bus Stop in Ejigbo, Osapa Junction in Lekki, Awori-Oniyaya/Balogun Ilawe in Agege, Alabama Suru Market in Ifelodun area, Durbar Road, Mile 2 (Jakande Estates) Amuwo Odofin, Olaogun Street in Ebute Meta Yaba, Roju Avenue in Kosofe/Ojota, Church Bus Stop at Igando Road, Igando Ikotun, St Finbars College in Akoka and Moshood Abiola Model Market in Agege Lagos.