From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha Chairman of Anambra State Council of Traditional Rulers and Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Alfred Achebe, has accused politicians and political office holders of being responsible for the country’s multifaceted problems.
Obi Achebe, who also said Nigeria is presently on a shaky ground. spoke yesterday in Onitsha. The occasion was the installation of Don Ebubeogu as the 12th president of Onitsha Chamber of Commerce Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ONICCIMA) and the 10th Edition of the Perspectives, an annual lecture series of the chamber
The traditional ruler said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition party, the PeoplesDemocratic Party (PDP) including the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) controlling Anambra State are all part of the problem. He maintained that it was expedient to detach the country’s economic wellbeing from politics.
He regretted that crime was gradually returning to Anambra State occasioned by the activities of the commercial motorcycle and tricycle riders whom he said render services to the people but have constituted a nuisance to the city through crime and accidents. He said the challenge is how to organise them to provide their services in a safer and more organised manner or find an alternative.
“I want to say it without fear of contradiction that the disturbances and tension we have in this country is first and foremost caused by those we elected to govern us and those in Abuja which by extension include the ruling party, APC and the opposition, PDP. Even in Anambra, it is the same.
“The well being of any nation rests significantly, materially and majorly on our ability to create wealth and it is the Chambers of Industries, Commerce and Agriculture that creates wealth. In other countries like Italy, Korea and Japan, there is a clear distinction between the economic generation of the country and politics.
“In Italy for instance, governments rise and fall every day, but the economy continues to grow, creating wealth and good living for the people. I think that is what we have to do here. There is a challenge for the commercial /business sector to rise up to the challenge and create a situation that we must increasingly detach our economic policies, performances, growth and the activities of all of the members of the chambers from the overbearing dependence on the political class.
“Politics could go on and on, but, let us ensure that businesses, industries and agricultural production continue, so that we can create wealth for the country. It is the responsibility of all of us,” he said.
Earlier, the newly inaugurated 12th president who took over from Uche Apakama said the chamber, under his administration will key into the aspirations of the Onitsha business community in re-planning the city’s business environment.
He said his leadership will be at the front burner in reshaping the mindset of every other businessman in the city.         