Muslim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia have been advised to take advantage of the pilgrimage to offer prayers for the nation’s peace, development and economic recovery. Pilgrimage to the Mecca, also known as Hajj, is one of the five pillars of Islam. The airlift of intending pilgrims has since commenced across the country. A correspondent of NAN in Omu-Aran, Kwara State, spoke to some Muslims clerics on the significance of the pilgrimage. Alhaji Sodiq Afolayan, the Chief Imam of Omu-Aran Central Mosque, described Hajj as “sacred period for prayers and devotion.’’ “It is in the light of the holiness of the Holy pilgrimage (Hajj) period that we should not hesitate in offering prayers for guidance for our leaders.’’ Afolayan urged the pilgrims to see the Hajj as a divine call to the service of Allah. “We, as patriotic citizens and Muslims from Nigeria, should specifically offer prayers for speedy recovery of the nation’s economy said to be in recession. “Surely, this is one sacred period where prayers of the righteous are promptly accepted and granted,’’ he said. Alhaji Mustapha Abdulsalam, the Missioner of Omu-Aran Chapter of Nasrullahi-lifathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT), urged leaders in the country to imbibe exemplary leadership style of Prophet Muhammad. “Prophet Muhammad was an epitome of humility, honesty and integrity. “This is just few of the sterling qualities that endeared Prophet Muhammad to his followers during and after his sojourn on earth,’’ he said. Abdulsalam urged Muslims to reflect on the occasion and rededicate themselves to the service of Allah and humanity. “We have to reflect on our past mistakes and misdeeds and seek for forgiveness for us to become righteous. “This is the only way we can be able to intercede on behalf of the leaders through prayers on our challenges.’’ Alhaji Issa Salahudeen, the Chief Imam of Omu-Aran Chapter of Ansarudeen Society of Nigeria, urged wealthy Muslims to extend their hands of assistance to the needy and the less privileged. He said recent development in the country caused by the bad economic situation required citizens to be their brothers’ keepers. According to him, the current situation is not about being a Muslim or a Christian or Yoruba or Igbo or Hausa, but a Nigerian citizen. “This is the only way we can collectively tackle and alleviate the impact of the economic recession on the people,” he said. (NAN)