In line with the Federal Government plan to make housing affordable to Nigerians, a real estate firm, Propertymart Real Estate Investment Limited, has started schemes that would cushion the effect of housing deficits in the country. The Federal Government had put up plans to reduce the widening housing deficit in the country which received a boost with Propertymart’s scheme. The Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, also recently called for a Public Private Partnership (PPP) to bridge the infrastructural deficit in Nigeria and other African countries. For Propertymart to have taken the bull by the horn by entering into a PPP with the Federal Ministry of Housing to construct houses for middle and low income earners in Gwagwalada Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is action taken in the right direction, said Mr. Andrew Ahderbukun, a developer in Abuja. The Deputy Director (PPP) at the Federal Ministry of Housing, Tonye Igbanibo, who recently led a team to inspect the 10-hectare stretch of land designated for the project, charged Propertymart to commence work immediately towards catering to the teeming populace in need of shelter. He noted that the Housing Ministry was eager to see the project commenced and completed for the benefit of Nigerians who are desirous of having their own houses. While saying that the land was good for all forms of housing units, the Deputy Director stated that the Housing Ministry would support Propertymart in any way possible to ensure success of the project in order to reduce the sufferings of Nigerians resident in the FCT. “We are waiting for you. You have seen the place and we are there to support you so that work can commence here immediately,” Igbanibo stressed. Deputy Managing Director of Propertymart and Head of the Propertymart delegation, Mr. Deji Fasuwon, disclosed that his organisation entered into the partnership to enable middle and low level income earners have houses of their own at affordable prices and that the company went further by putting in place a suitable payment plan, which will help reduce the housing deficit in the nation. He said, “this project is a direct partnership with the Federal Ministry of Housing in their plan to offer affordable mass housing. We realise that there is so much housing deficit in the country and the Federal Ministry of Housing is trying as much as possible to ensure that these houses are available to Nigerians out there. The government cannot do this alone by themselves, and that is why they have called on private developers to join them in ensuring the vision of the government is achieved.”