From: Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin-Kebbi Emir of Gwardu, Alhaji Muhammadu illiyasu Bashar, has urged the Federal Government to provide tight security at the border communities within Nigerian territory to prevent illegal entry of foreign Fulani’s and unhealthy cows into the country. Alhaji Bashar is also theChairman of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs in Kebbi State. The Emir stated this while addressing hundreds of Districts, Villages Heads and security agencies during the Security Summit for Chiefdoms, District Heads and Village Heads in the state held in Birnin Kebbi, on Sunday. The Emir also oted that  the frequent crisis between farmers and herdsmen were caused by foreign Fulani’s from borders communities outside Nigeria, saying due to porosity of Nigerian  borders, the foreigners crossed over to the country easily to perpetrate evil and escaped easily. To check this trend, the monarch said the Federal Government should be taxing them on their cows,check health status of their animals and census them. Said he,  “Our Fulani herdsmen do not carry arms. Those Fulani’s that are killing people are not from Nigeria,they are from borders communities. Our borders are so porous and in the past, there used to be tight security in these areas which prevent illegal entry of Immigrants and animals.” He urged local government chairmen in the state to be holding security meeting with District and Village Heads regularly to ensure safety of lives and properties in their domains. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, in his remarks, ordered that various Districts Heads andVillage Heads should be holding local government security meeting promptly and be sending their minutes to him for immediate actions. Bagudu who informed the participants that Federal Government had directed Governors in the country to empower their people at the grassroots for total self reliance, said they should forward memo containing what their subjects needs to him for appropriate attention. He also promised to provide adequate funding  for the Nigeria Police and other security agencies in the state to strengthen their services to the people. Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr.Ibrahim M.Kabiru in his remarks urged the state government and general public to partner with the Police through funding and security information.
He noted that Nigeria Police usually find it difficult to fuel their vehicles, maintaining it, because of inadequate funds stressed that their officers were always adjudged excellent whenever they go for foreign missions because they usually received  adequate funds .
Other participants at the occasions includes Emirs of Argungu,Yauru,Zuru, State Director of DSS Comptroller of NDLEA,Commandant of NSCDC and Chief Imams of major towns among others.