Since opening at the cinemas last Friday, the much acclaimed movie, Banana Island Ghost, has been in high demand, as movie lovers are falling over each other to see it. Going by box office statistics, the movie may end up grossing the highest in the annals of Nollywood. According to its executive producer, Biola Alabi, the reason for the high demand is due to referrals from those who had already watched the movie. “After seeing the movie, people couldn’t help but tell their friends and families about it, so it is no surprise that more and more people keep filling the seats at the cinemas. We are expecting even greater numbers this weekend,” she says. The first of five films from BAM-Nemsia Pictures, a production partnership between Biola Alabi Media (BAM) and Nemsia Films, Banana Island Ghost tells the story of a ghost that has just three days to fall in love and will do anything to save her father’s house in Banana Island from the bank coming to reclaim it, in three days. Written and directed by BB Sasore, Banana Island Ghost is produced by Omorinsojo Spaine and Tolu Olusoga. The film’s executive producers are Biola Alabi and Derin Adeyokunnu, with co-executive producers, Dr. Ayo Osunrinade, Mr. Michael Ugwu, founder of FreeMe Digital; Adenike Adekanbi of HTB Entertainment Studios, Niyi Toluwalope and Basheer Tosin Ashafa of Tri-Equity Capital. The movie was premiered recently at a night of glitz and glamour at Harbour Point Events Center, Victoria Island, Lagos. The celebrities on the red carpet on that night included cast members like Ali Nuhu, Tomiwa Edun, Saidi Balogun, Lala Akindoju, Akah Nnani, Uche Jombo, Damilola Adegbite, Dorcas Fapson, Ozzy Agu, Lord Frank, Makida Moka and Bimbo Ademoye. Others are Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Omawunmi, OC Ukeje, Michelle Dede, Inidima Okojie, Eku Edewor, Freeze, Osas Ighodaro Ajibade, Ill Rhymz, Lamide Akintobi, Beverly Naya, Linda Ejiofor, Tomi Odunsi, Beverly Osu, BBA stars Bisola, Kemen and Uriel, and many more. Following a remarkable response from guests at the premiere, Biola Alabi said: “Chigul is an exceptional talent and in Banana Island Ghost, from her first moment on screen, she captivates the audience, movie lovers all over will thoroughly enjoy watching her.”