Lagos State House of Assembly has read the riot act to contractors who take delight in cheating government by collecting money and not delivering on projects as andwhen due. The House has also commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his commitment in providing modern infrastructure for the development of the education sector in the state. Chairman of the Committee on Education, Lanre Ogunyemi, during a tour/inspectionof ongoing schools renovation across the state, demanded prompt projects delivery within time frame to complement the efforts of the state government at putting in place lasting infrastructure to develop the education sector in the state. Schools visited included Awori College, Ojo; Angus Memorial College, Igbobi; Lagos City Model College, Sabo; Lagos State Model College, Meiran; Millennium Senior Secondary School, Egbeda; Estate Junior High School, Ifako-Ijaye; and Dairy Farm Senior SecondarySchool, Agege. At Awori College Ojo, Ogunyemi faulted Eldorado Nigeria Limited, for the slow pace of the work in spite of 40 percent initial payment. “We are not satisfied with what we found here,” he said. Ogunyemi, however, expressed satisfaction at the pace of work at Angus Memorial and Lagos City Model Colleges. “These projects are giant stride of the Ambode administration. In each project there are supposed to be 36 classrooms and world-class facilities that are befitting,” he said. Speaking at Lagos State Model College, Meiran, Ogunyemi said the committee is happy with what they found compared to the state it was a year ago when they visited the school. Briefing newsmen after the oversight duty, the lawmaker said the main essence of the visit is to merge the projects vis a vis to the fund that has been released to the contractors. “We have gone round ongoing and renovated schools and I will like to say the governor has done well in all aspects including provision of educational infrastructure. I must commend the governor and Ministry of Education headed by our the deputy governor, Dr. Idhiat Adebule for doing great in this sector…” I’ll also commend the state House of Assembly under the leadership of the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa for providing the enabling legislative platform for the smooth running of government policies in the state,” Hon Ogunyemi said. and confrontational utterances disguised as the voice of His Imperial Majesty. We revere Kabiyesi and appeal that he should caution his media aide. The idea that Olubadan’s rights and privileges would be trampled upon does not arise. He will always be the head, the supreme Oba in Ibadanland and will be respected as such. “We want to put it on record that the Oluwo of Ibadan performed the traditional rites for the recently-installed 21 Obas.” People should get the facts right before propagating falsehood. Nobody can wear the crown without performing the necessary rites. The popular Labosinde House that does the crowning rites can only do that of Olubadan. So all the 21 Obas will have to wait till they become Olubadan at their respective times before they undergo the rites of Labosinde,” Kolade added. In his contribution, Mr. Toye Arulogun said that the government will not relent in explaining its stand to the people for proper understanding, reiterating that the move has no political undertone as being insinuated in some quarters and the government is not trying to reduce the powers and authority of the Olubadan but rather elevate it to be at par with all other first class Obas with lieutenants. Arulogun restated that the need to review the 1959 Olubadan Chieftaincy Declarations predated the reign of Oba Adetunji, noting that the review was requested for by Ibadan indigenes as well as High Chiefs and there was adequate consultations with various stakeholders including the Olubadan of Ibadanland, sons and daughters of Ibadan land, socio – cultural groups and the authors of the 118 memoranda received by the Justice Boade’s panel within the 3 months of its public sitting. He stated further that there was no legal impediment against the installation of the 21 Obas by the State Government, noting that the governor has acted within the ambit of the law. Arulogun said “The Oyo State government led by Senator Abiola Ajimobi had been engaging in discussions and consultations which predate the tenure of the present Olubadan as the agitation for a review of the law was well before his ascension to the throne. The Olubadan – in – Council and well meaning sons and daughters of Ibadanland requested for the review. “It is pertinent to also state that the Olubadan’s absence at the installation did not detract from its legitimacy. In addition,  we wish to put on record that the existing constitutional provision of 5% from the local governments’ allocation will still be used for the welfare of the Obas as there is no additional cost to the state government,” Arulogun stressed.