• Urges African lawyers to reshape continent From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has relieved the chairmen of four local government caretaker committees of their appointments. According to a statement by his Special Assistant on Electronic Media, Simeon Nwakaudu, the affected councils included Gokana, Asari-Toru, Emohua and Ogu-Bolo. The governor thanked the council chairmen for their service to the state and wished them well in their future endeavours. Just yesterday, the governor relieved all his special advisers of their appointments. Governor Wike had recently sacked the members of the State Executive Council. The sack of the commissioners came 48 hours after he sacked his Commissioner for Works, Bathuel Harrison. The sacking of Harrison came less than 24 hours after Austin Tan-George, his Commissioner for Information and Communication tendered his resignation over alleged ‘high handedness’ by the Governor. Meanwhile, Governor Wike has urged African lawyers to be shining lights in the continent to reshape it for the good of the people. Governor Wike gave the charge yesterday, when he declared open the 2017 African Bar Association (AFBA) annual conference in Port Harcourt. According to him, the task before African leaders is to provide enabling fiscal and regulatory environment for the private sector to create jobs, provide economic prosperity and security for the people. He said: “It is against this background that we note with satisfaction the decision of AFBA to organise this conference. “The upswing of stable democratic governments and appreciable investments in development infrastructure has contributed, in no small measure, to positively change the continent’s  economic narratives.” He said despite being weakened by the global recession, reports affirmed Africa’s positive economic outlook, as one of the world’s most attractive frontiers for trade and investments. Wike informed the African lawyers that the state had been repositioned as Nigeria’s investment destination. The governor said: “As we speak, Rivers State is adjudged to be one of the safest states in the country. Our communities are safe. Our local government areas are safe and secure, just as our homes and neighbourhoods are safe and secure.” He noted that the state had advanced in areas of independent judiciary, quality infrastructure and basic amenities developed by the administration. In his keynote address, immediate past president of Tanzania, Dr. Jakaya Kikwete, called on African leaders to work for greater investment climate on the continent. He said Africa could be a continent where its people would be wealthy and happy, if leaders create the right environment for investment. Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, said Africans should believe that, as a people, they could work for the attainment of set goals.  Attorney General of Sierra Leone, Joseph Kamara, said the conference was symbolic, as it created a platform to chart a course for the development of Africa. In his remarks, President of AFBA, Mr. Hannibal Uwaifo, said the need for the African legal community to re-enter the global stage informed the resuscitation of the African Bar Association. Welcoming delegates to the conference, Vice President of the association, Mr. Eddy Mark, urged participants to take advantage of the conference to savour the hospitality of the state. 