From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka No fewer than 162 baby orphans were made to smile and rejoice recently in Anambra as Augustina Ngozi Agbasionye Foundation embarked on another round of visitation of some motherless babies homes in the state. Also made to feel love from the Foundation were about 1,840 primary school pupils who enjoyed the milk of human kindness of the founder who ensured that both the motherless babies and the school pupils were taken care of. This year, the Foundation which has been assisting the less privileged for the past five years included in its gift, free medical services, provision of medications and food items. Speaking shortly after the Foundation visited the Tender Love Orphanage, Awka, Head of the Foundation, Mr Chukwunonso Nwoye, said that the body was established to contribute positively to the welfare of its immediate and distant environment. “The founder of the Non-Governmental Organization, Chief Augustina Ngozi Nwoye is a pharmacist based abroad, she came home to start this foundation five years ago and so far about 162 orphans and 1,840 primary school pupils have benefited in one way or the other. “We had in the past carried out free medical services to the beneficiaries and carried out feed the school programmes for the pupils and nursery school children,” he said. Nwoye noted that the Foundation would in no distant time commence the distribution of medical items to both public and private hospitals in the state, adding that the founder being a pharmacist has the capacity and contacts to provide drugs and other medical equipment to health centres and clinics. Speaking after the presentation of food items to the orphans, the secretary of Tender Love Orphanage, Miss Ngozi Nnama noted that “this is not the first time the Foundation is assisting us in this orphanage. “We commend the Foundation for their kind gesture in rendering help and assistance to the less privileged members of the society. We use this opportunity to urge other public spirited individuals to borrow a leaf from what this body is doing.” Also speaking on behalf of the orphans, five-year-old Amarachi prayed that God Almighty should touch the heart of philanthropists and other Non-Governmental Organizations to assist in the plight of the orphans.