From: Rose Ejembi, Makurdi The Benue State Government has shut about 2, 424 illegal schools in the state following failure to meet minimum standard.Commissioner of Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Dennis Itavyaar, who announced this, on Tuesday, at a press conference at the Government House in Makurdi, said the affected schools included, 1,925 nursery and primary schools, 435 secondary schools as well as 14 tertiary institutions.
Ityavyar, who posited that the schools were shut because they failed certification by the Ministry of Education in meeting phase 2 approval, also  decried the increasing number of illegal schools springing up in the state which he said have constituted a big set back to the educational sector  as they have continued to produce half baked graduates.
“These illegal schools have been responsible for the poor performance of our students in both internal and external examinations. The State ranked 14th in the last WAEC. This is not good.  We should rank first because education is the only industry in the state and the Governor is so passionate about improving the educational sector.”
The commissioner also frowned at the decay in norms and values by the youths, attributing it to poor education, maintaining that the closure of the schools was a deliberate step towards revamping the educational sector of the State.While saying that the decision to close the schools was not meant to witch-hunt anyone, he, however, warned that itwould no longer be business as usual for anyone who feels he or she can just wake up and start a school without the requisite qualification and certification.
“This section is not intended to witch hunt anybody. It is for our collective good. Those who think they are above the law, it is no longer business as usual. An enforcement committee has been set up in all the 23 local government areas to ensure compliance. We have involved all the Security agencies including the Police, Department of State Security, area education officers among others.
“Any attempt by anyone to reopen the schools, such person will go to jail. However owner of the closed schools can come to us and if they meet the minimum standard, they will be reopened”,  Ityavyar said. 