The Kaduna State Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), on Thursday advised travelers for the Sallah festival to examine drivers and vehicle tyres before boarding as part of safety measures. The Sector Commander, Malam Umar Ibrahim, gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna. Ibrahim called on passengers not to surrender their lives to the whim and caprice of drivers, urging them to use their sense of reasoning to do the needful before boarding a vehicle. “Examine the driver before boarding the vehicle. Find out if he is in the right state of mind or under the influence of drugs before boarding his vehicle. “Also, it is the vehicle that carries passengers and tyres carry the vehicle; check the tyres to ensure they are in good shape so that you don’t enter a car that would send you to early grave. “If you notice any abnormally or you notice the driver is acting strange and you suspects that he might be under the influence of suspicious substance, don’t enter. Look for another vehicle. “Please, don’t enter a vehicle and start sleeping. Stay alert so that you can monitor the speed and call the attention of the driver when he goes beyond accepted limits. “Exercise your right of deciding which vehicle to board and at what speed a driver should be driving, “he added. Ibrahim equally called on drivers to be mindful of their speed limit; avoid beating traffic light, making phone calls or texting while driving. ‘Our major problem with drivers is speed. Every driver is interested in speeding, whether in town or on the highway. We really need to cut our speed to avoid preventable accident and death, “he added. The sector commander said the command had deployed 500 marshals with patrol vehicles, ambulances and toying trucks to all highways to ensure accident-free Sallah in the state. He said that all the 28 FRSC formations in the state were mobilized to provide 24-hour service as part of effort to maintaining sanity on the roads. (Source: NAN) 