China has expressed its willingness to expand its media relations with Nigeria to promote the relationship between both countries and objectively represent developments in China and Africa. Chinese Vice Minister of Information of State Council, Mr Guo Weimin, made this known in Abuja on Thursday, during a media dialogue organised by Leadership Group to host Guo said that bilateral relations between both countries was “evergreen” and adding that enhanced cooperation between the media of both countries would strengthen relations. He recalled that the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) held in Dec. 2015 had media relations as one of the agreement reached at the summit. He noted that China’s relationship with Africa was the “cornerstone” of the foreign policy of the Chinese Government. “The purpose of my visit to Nigeria is to implement important agreements that were reached between the Chinese and Nigeria presidents on developing the strategic partnership of China-Nigeria relations. “Also to work closely with Nigeria to ensure that the outcome of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and push forward our bilateral relations by inclusive exchanges with the government, the people and the mass media especially in media and social culture. “Mass media serves the most special and important part in introducing the China-Nigeria cooperation, recording the China-Nigeria exchanges and spreading friendship,” he said. The vice minister said that the media of both countries had role in promoting people-to-people relations between both countries and being a positive voice for developing nations globally. “We will continue to tap into the rich content of China-Nigeria friendship cooperation to broadcast and spread the most touching stories to the world, to broadcast and report the lively cooperative results between out two countries. “We will promote innovative and pragmatic cooperation and carry forward common development of China-Nigeria media industry; under these new circumstances, it is meaningful for China-Nigeria media industries to launch exchanges and cooperation. “We will encourage as many Chinese media to come to Nigeria to broadcast and we welcome more Nigerian media to visit and study in China.” In his remarks, the Chinese Deputy Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Lin Jing said “media cooperation should be part of the overall China-Nigeria cooperation”. Lin recalled that China at the FOCAC summit had agreed to train 1,000 media professional from Africa annually adding that Nigeria had benefited from that agreement. “In line with the spirit of equal treatment, seeking common ground while reserving difference, and openness and inclusiveness, let’s bring into play the power of media and lay a solid public opinion foundation for healthy and stable development of bilateral relations between the two countries. “Chinese and Nigerian media should report on each country objectively and rationally to play a constructive role in advancing the China-Nigeria strategic partnership. “When media cooperation works, society thrives,” he said. Also speaking, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors said it was pertinent for the media to work together to enhance national and regional development. Egbemode also added that the media served as a watchdog in ensuring accountability among the nation’s leaders. “My vision as president of the guild and as a journalist is that we do better than what we have done before; we want to partner with the Chinese media organisations. “Working with China, there is so much we can do together and we are wlling to work with China to get things done. The Nigerian media works very hard but now we need to work very hard together because we can achieve more working together,” she said. (NAN)