From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka Three governors, Nyesom Wike, Ayo Fayose and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Rivers, Ekiti and Enugu States respectively, are expected to storm Awka, the Anambra State capital this morning for the ward congress election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) slated for today. Wike is leading a five-man PDP Anambra Ward Congress Committee which has Fayose, a senator and two others as members, while Governor Ugwuanyi as directed by the party will lend assistance to the committee. The committee is saddled with the responsibility of conducting the congress in the 326 electoral wards in Anambra State. Already, the atmosphere at the hotel where the committee members were expected to stay was charged as politicians especially PDP stakeholders were seen anxiously waiting for their arrival for possible private meetings, just as intrigues over delegate list heats up. As at the time of sending the report, the advanced team of the committee members were being received at the hotel while some of them were said to have landed in Enugu airport to either spend the night with Governor Ugwuanyi  or leave for Awka. Speaking to newsmen yesterday, the Chairman of Anambra State PDP Caretaker Committee, Prof. ABC Nwosu said logistics for the ward congress had been perfected, waiting for the Wike-led committee. He promised that PDP would conduct a credible ward congress and primary election which would come up on Saturday in the state. “We have been meeting stakeholders and members of the party in the state and we have assured them that the process will be fair. “We are in Anambra to ensure that we restore the political process in the state and we are surprised that our people have been seeking to bend the rule. “We have been running the party on our own pockets and that is just because we do not want to be collecting money from aspirants. “We have been fair to all and I can tell you that no one can accuse us of collecting money from them. “Anambra Caretaker Committee is determined to give Anambra good and decent election. “We want to restore the voting and choice culture of politics in Anambra State.”