By Adewale Sanyaolu The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) said it would complete the 1400 kilometre gas pipeline before the end of 2017. Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mr. Maikanti Baru, stated this at the 2017 Nigeria Annual International Conference and Exhibition (NAICE) organised by Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), which ended in Lagos last week. The move, according to Baru, is a fallout of the recent drive by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and NNPC to create an enabling environment for growth of the domestic gas market. ‘‘So far, over 1000km of major gas pipelines have been laid and commissioned, an additional 470km is currently under construction phase while a further 1400km is intended for construction before the end of 2017,’’ he said. The NNPC GMD explained that along with the development of physical infrastructure, commercial frameworks are being put in place to support the growth of the domestic gas market, adding that progress has also been made in the reduction of flared gas volumes from a peak of 2.5 billion standard cubic feet a day scf/d a couple of years ago to about a current volume of 700 MMscf/d. Baru assured that he envisages a near zero flare in the not too distant future as adequate infrastructure and frameworks are being put in place, stressing that government’s intentions to develop the gas market will be made clear to prospective investors. Based on a projected domestic gas supply deficit of three billion scfd, he said NNPC identified seven critical gas development projects, which can be delivered in the short and medium-term to bridge the impending gas supply shortfall. ‘‘I held a stakeholder forum with the seven project owners in Abuja on May 9, 2017, where I made it clear that funding for the identified projects will not be an impediment to their successful completion. In the event that JVs or NPDC as the case may be fail to raise the required funds, opportunities may be extended to third party investors to help finance the projects. Commitments received from various stakeholders who attended the event were quite impressive with target delivery date for these projects being Q4, 2020,’’ he assured. The NNPC boss disclosed that shortly after coming on board as the Group Managing Director of NNPC in 2016, the management team successfully rolled out its vision for the corporation tagged 12 Business Focus Areas (BUFA), which is aimed at “moving NNPC forward…together.” Under the vision, he said NNPC has already implemented a number of policies that will emplace the corporation on the path of growth and profitability. ‘‘However, NNPC as it is now is a wholly owned Federal Government entity and as such subscribes to the government’s perspective of profitability. As a government, strategic projects can be viewed as investments for future profit and dividends for the country.