By Gilbert Ekezie Chief Executive of AKO Group of Comapnaies, Mr. Obiora Atuchukwu, has said that Pykure is the best herbal product for treating hemorrhoids. Also known as pile, hemorrhoids are swollen blood vessels in or around the rectum and anus. They develop as a result of the inflammation of the rectal and anal veins, and cause serious pain to the sufferer, especially while defecating. Atuchukwu further explained that internal inflammation does not always result in much pain, but is usually accompanied by bleeding. He said other symptoms of pile include itching, swelling and bleeding through anus. According to him, conditions which cause increased pressure on veins around the anus include diarrhoea, chronic constipation during pregnancy due to weight of fetus, jobs that entail lifting heavy weights and excessive use of oily, spicy and junk food. He stated that in order to be free from the problems of pile, bowel should be cleaned regularly. Individuals should engage in regular exercise, avoid horse riding or sitting on hard seat and also drink a lot of water. Atuchukwu pointed out that Pykure is very helpful in relieving the symptoms of piles and makes the sufferer be in a very good state of mind. “It does not only reduce the pain and stop bleeding, it also works to correct the predisposing factors that trigger pile,” he said. The AKO Group chief executive advised people who have hemorrhoids and have been seeking for a cure, should look no farther than Pykure, stating that the herbal medication is a tested and trusted Ayurvedic medicine. “It has been known all over the world that Ayurvedic herbs are best in fighting various diseases. And pile is best treated with recommended Ayurvedic medicines like Pykure herbal capsules.” Atuchukwu whose company is the sole marketer of Pykure Capsules and other Indian Ayurvedic medicines in Nigeria and Africa explained that the formulation also has the power to fight fissures and fistula. “Testimonies about Pykure come to us from sufferers on daily bases. And most of our customers got information about us from those who have used the products and being satisfied, they them to other people.” Atuchukwu further explained that provided Pykure is taken according to the recommended dosage, it would surely work well. Two capsules of the medicine should be taken three times daily before meals until when the problem subsides. Also, he said, it does not have side effects because it is pure herbal.