From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Judicial Commission of Inquiry on the review of the existing 1957 (1959) Declaration of Olubadan if Ibadanland and other related chieftaincies in Ibadan has recommended that Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State, should have 32 kings in addition to the stool of Olubadan. Chairman of the panel, Justice Akintunde Boade (retd), disclosed this on Friday when he formally submitted the report of the commission to the state governor,  Abiola Ajimobi, in Ibadan. He explained that 11members of Olubadan-in-Council would be elevated to beaded crown wearing monarchs, and recommended 21 Baales to become kings, and all of them will be subject to Olubadan of Ibadanland. Receiving the report, Ajimobi said: “We will study it and we will pass it through the process. By God’s grace, we do hope that effective from next month, we will implement the recommendations. “This review is necessary, one to enhance the status of the current Olubadan of Ibadanland. It is not diminishing, it is to enhance. Two, it is to be in line with Yoruba States, that have done similar reviews and implemented the reviews.” The commission also recommended reduction of the 22 steps on the line of Otun Olubadan to 11, and 23 steps on the Balogun line to 12, with a view to fast-tracking ascendancy to the stool of Olubadan. Justice Boade told journalists after the ceremony that “We will now have 32 beaded crowns. But the Olubadan remains the paramount ruler for the whole Ibadan. No power of Olubadan will be whittle down. It remains as it is. He is the overall. He explained further that the recommendations are still subject to other processes that must he complied with, noted that the recommednations would not affect them the chiefs currently on the two lines of Olubadan that have been producing Olubadan on rotational basis. “The bottomless title now is Jagun on both sides. So, people who are Jagun now, or as at the time the new structure will be implemented, will be entitled to promotion until they become Olubadan. “Presently, they will not be able to appoint new chiefs because the cut-off point now is Ikolaba title. So, until the present Jagun is able to be elevated above Ikolaba title, thereby Ikolaba title would be vacant. So, it is then that new chiefs can be appointed; that may be in 10 or 20 years. “The Magaji in Ibadan is the first step to become Olubadan. Without becoming mogaji, you can never become Jagun. So, it is the mogaji age that has been reduced. So, there is now age limit. The age limit is now between 25 and 35 years to be made a Mogaji. “But there is no age limit to become Olubadan on the higher rung, that will be left to the nature to decide; you can get there young or old.” Members of Olubadan-in-Council were led to the programme by the Otun Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun. The leadership of Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) were also represented on the occasion.