President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his grief following reports that a former‎ governor of the defunct Midwest region and old Bendel state, Dr. Samuel Osaigbovo Ogbemudia, passed away last night. In a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, President Buhari said that the late Ogbemudia left an impressive legacy of hardwork, discipline and commitment to communal, state, regional and national development. He extended his heartfelt condolences to the Ogbemudia family as well as the government and people of Edo state on the death of the former governor. The statement added: “President Buhari joins them and other admirers in mourning the elder statesman who diligently served the country with courage and dedication at crucial moments in her history, both as military governor and a democratically elected civilian governor. “The President believes that the late Ogbemudia, who had a distinguished career as a military officer, administrator and Federal Minister, has left an impressive legacy of hardwork, discipline and commitment to communal, state, regional and national development. “The President recalls the unique role of the elder statesman in the nation’s return to civilian rule in 1999 and trusts that, as a tireless advocate for equity, he will be long remembered and honoured for his dedication to the advancement of his people, especially in the fields of education, social welfare and infrastructure. “President Buhari prays that God Almighty will comfort all who mourn the late Brig.-Gen. Ogbemudia and grant his soul eternal rest.” Ogbemudia passed away about 11pm at a private hospital on Thursday, March 9. He was a former two time military governor and was appointed military administrator of Mid-West state in September, 1967 – 1975 following the liberation of state from the Biafran forces. Years later, Ogbemudia was elected civilian governor of Bendel state after winning the August 1983 gubernatorial election under the platform of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN).  