It is sad for a mortal being to decide not to sleep until he has seen the corpse of someone he has judged and condemned and yet, he may be reputable in the Church. He may be hearing heart-bleeding messages and yet nothing hinders him from the dictates of his flesh. The long-annual fasts he takes with the members of his church may not impact his life, but may be reduced only to a mere spiritual exercise. King Herod, the Great, decided to kill a new-born Baby, the Infant-Jesus, when he heard that He would be the King. Pretending that he would also worship Him, he instructed the wise men, who came from the East to honour the Baby, to report to him where He was born. Thank God, they were wise not to dance to his murderous tune. When he knew that he had been fooled, he still went on with his mad ambition by instructing his soldiers to kill all male children below the age of two. His son, Herod Antipas, imprisoned Rev. John the Baptist for daring him. John told him what other people in the realm would not say, concerning his amorous relationship with Herodias, his half-brother’s wife. He later beheaded John. A family, notorious for evil, Herod Agrippa 1, murdered Apostle James and befuddled with pride, one day he was proclaimed god and he accepted. Struck by the angel of God, he died miserably, but unfortunately, nothing was left to be put in his coffin as worms made a feast of him. Chai! King Saul pursued David, who saved his life and crown the day Goliath wanted to ravage all Israel. Evil doers are often myopic and reason through the anus, otherwise, how could Saul be engrossed with succession by his son, when he knew how he came to the throne? If he could not kill Goliath, who could not kill David, how then could he venture to kill David, the champion? If he killed him and another ‘Goliath’ emerged, who would save him? As David killed the giant with a mere pebble, did Saul not see the finger of God at work? Did he not realize the implication of waging war against God’s friend? Well, he was still on pursuit of David, after apologies that came from his lips, when he perished. The fly that wants to die, follows the corpse to the grave. David still mourned him and killed a man, who claimed that he killed King Saul, perhaps, expecting a brown envelop! When things are normal, evil men do not consider God or anything. Most of the time, they say and do what they fancy, not considering that their doomsday will come one day. We will consider the fate of one of them, quoting from one of my books, ‘My Prodigal Husband Returns’, a sequel to ‘Unequal Yoke’, my 5th book. Goddy, the prodigal husband, returned, but that was after 21 years he had absconded from his family. Yes, Uncle returned after stealing and marrying Chinwe, his wife’s Chief Bridesmaid; he returned after Chinwe, the lady he eloped with, had embarrassed him thoroughly by giving birth to a White baby, when everybody knew that the parents were Nigerians; he returned after making a mistress of Joy, Chinwe’s sister, until she repented and joined Deeper Life Bible Church. We thank God that he returned, though slurring, skimping on one leg and looking quite older than his age! Worse of all, he returned and was treated in the hospital for three months by Dr. Ik, his last born, and he could not recognize him! Let us consider another bad invent in his life. “…Chinwe, a lady, who always wanted the best of all things and who, would not consider the effect of her exteriors on others. Theirs was marriage in rebound, for of a truth, though he would not return to me, I heard that he was still smarting from losing his children and my humble self. These were the thoughts in his mind that afternoon as he sat down in his company’s cozy boardroom, awaiting his fate, the verdict of management. The Managing Director and other management staff had been in the MD’s office reviewing the report of the panel set on his case. Soon, it would be all over. That was certain, but what was not sure was whether it would be in his favour. Would he retain his job or would they sack him? Goddy, in a well-tailored suit, had been wondering why the MD and the management staff were late in coming out. He felt relaxed when it occurred to him that somebody was perhaps, pleading on his behalf. “If it’s too bad, they would have come out long time ago,” he rationalized. He felt a sudden renewed spur of energy sweeping through him and a strange heat welling up inside his body, though the air conditioner was switched on. If things were normal, he would have removed his coat, but things were not. That was why he was not with his colleagues. It was necessary that he dressed well. Who knew what might attract favour for him? He was pondering these things in his mind when he heard the creaking of the door as they were coming out, looking friendly. The MD even nudged and made some joke to him. That gave him a ray of hope. Matters, he recalled, always went that way with people in high echelon, the usual warning not to ‘repeat such conducts in future’. His mind was made up, It would never happen again. Chinwe would no more mislead him. He might reduce his extramarital relationship with women, perhaps, join a church. He started rehearsing how he would thank management ‘for your kind gesture and magnanimity…’ “Unfortunately, his plea that ‘Satan deceived me’ merely amused the management without attracting their sympathy. The MD’s words cut him down to size. With a splitting headache and a throbbing neck, he listened as the MD, in his hectoring voice announced his fate – the termination of his appointment with immediate effect. What pained him most was what some expatriate staff members, in their usual manner, were whispering among themselves, ‘Nigerians are always like that. Imagine a bloke promoted to replace Mr. Richard recently on a lame excuse that he is a national…’ “A few hours later, tears were flowing from his eyes and those of Sonu, as the security guards escorted him to the outer gate, the very one he gave orders that I should not be allowed to enter! That disgraceful conduct was said to be his creation. He least expected it would one day be his lot. So it ended with a man, who would not like to live with the nausea of humiliation from any person, but now it was coming in showers from such a multinational company”. For further comment, Please contact: Osondu Anyalechi:  0802 3002-471; anyalechiosondu@yahoo.com 