With the release of ‘Freedom Fighters’, fast rising singer, ALB has thrown his hat into the highly competitive arena of Nigerian music. In deed, the song seems to raise some hairs. However, in this interview, ALB states his mission, challenges and prospects as a musician. Enjoy it. Who is ALB, what’s your real name? My real name is Onyebuchi Okeke from Awka, Anambra State. My stage name is ALB. You are new on the music scene, how do you intend to cope with the challenges given that there are many players in the industry? Professionally, it can be said that I am new, but the truth is that I have been in the Nigerian music industry, mostly behind the scene. I say so because I wrote my first song in 1998, but due to circumstances surrounding me, I decided to keep the song for the right time. As I talk to you, I have two albums that I must release, and I think the right time is now because my people say that ‘when a man wakes up is his morning’. What have you been doing between 1998 and now? I have been in business right here in Nigeria and I have been doing well. What music genre do you offer? People should expect different kinds of songs from me. I am a creative person; I am also a playwright. I have written three movie scripts that have not been shot, so expect hip-hop, R&B, pop, just name it; any kind of song from me. I am not the kind of musician you can classify as a maker of a particular genre of music. I may do pop today and the next day I may offer R&B. There are so many tunes out there, how do you think yours can fit into this potpourri of sounds. My music will make it in the midst of the many songs because of its uniqueness. I like being unique and I don’t like doing things because somebody did them. I like doing something because I like doing it and I want to do it, and I like doing it in my own way. The song I am pushing out is entitled ‘Freedom Fighters’ and if you listen to it you will agree that it is unique, and because of the uniqueness, I think it will make headway.
Your song’s title, ‘Freedom Fighters’ is intriguing; is there any reason for such a title at this time especially considering the agitations for Biafra? There is no reason. I made this song about five or six years ago. If you watch the video, you will see that it has dedication to some personalities in respect of their selflessness. Regarding the Biafra angle, I can say that it was not my consideration; it is a mere coincidence. I dedicated the song to the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe for bringing independence to Nigeria; to Kwame Nkruma of Ghana, Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, and even Mary Slessor for stopping the killing of twins in Nigeria. It was also dedicated to William Wilberforce who stopped slavery in Britain and Abraham Lincoln for his emancipation proclamation that stopped slavery in the United States of America. I made this song to encourage every selfless man living on earth to continue with his selfless acts and not for Biafra or anything of the sort. It is not about Biafra or Nigeria; it is about the world. What are your plans in reducing the effect of piracy on the work? That will not be the issue now because the distribution and marketing have gone beyond certain levels. Let me say that the mode of marketing is known to me and I know how to go about it. Though, it is carrying my recording company’s label, I will not market it personally; I will outsource it to another outfit. Do you have plans to get the song on the road with shows? No. Shows will come at the right time. Money is not the prime objective of my making this song; money will come at the right time. Just like what you said about piracy, this is only one track that I have just released, so if someone pirates this one track, it will not be harmful to me; he or she will just be promoting it for me, because it is a promotional track. So, if you replicate it, you are helping me to make it popular because I need this song to get everywhere. I will be serious about piracy when it becomes an album with about 15 tracks in one CD and I see you pirating it, then I will deal with you. You don’t seem to care about money or piracy as it were, so what is the philosophy behind the song? I care about money but I am being strategic about it. If I become too money-conscious about this very track, then I will not make money out of it, and the earlier I learn to be selfless about this one track, the better for me. I need this track to serve as a promotional material for me so that more people can hear it; that is what I want now, not money. What led you into singing? I am a born singer. Though, I cannot remember how old I was when I started singing, I have been singing for a long time. I wrote and composed my first song in 1998. I was all along singing for fun. I sang in the university, for instance at ‘Sociology Night 1999’; I sang and everybody was excited. If you see some other endeavour that is more attractive and rewarding, would you quit music? Within the next four or five years, the world should expect one album a year from me. In the sixth year, the style of my music will change. How do you intend to keep yourself and your music in the minds and hearts of the people? By being consistent.