From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja After 49 days in London, United Kingdom, President Muhammadu Buhari is expected back in Nigeria, today. Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a three-paragraph statement, yesterday night. “President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to return to the country today. The president left the country on January 19, 2017, for vacation, during which he had routine medical check-ups. The holiday was extended based on doctors’ recommendation for further tests and rest. President Buhari expresses appreciation to teeming Nigerians from across the country, and beyond, who had prayed fervently for him, and also sent their good wishes.” Buhari was to return to Nigeria on February 5 and resume on February 6, 2017. Instead, on Sunday, February 5, the president, based on doctors’ recommendation for further tests and rest, extended his vacation and transmitted same, in a letter, to the National Assembly. In London, Buhari reportedly spoke, on telephone, with his deputy,  Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, to get updates. He also reportedly spoke with governors of Kano, Kebbi and Kogi states. On Wednesday, during a visit to Edo State, Buhari reportedly spoke with Osinbajo for more than 30 minutes. Buhari also spoke with the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump, Moroccan Monarch,  King Mohammed VI, African Union Chairperson and President Alpha Conde of Guinea, among many others. The president is returning to Nigeria after he  hosted Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, at the Abuja House in London, yesterday. “Very pleased to welcome my friend the Most Revd and Rt Hon Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, to Abuja House this afternoon,” Buhari said via his Facebook page. At the parley, Buhari was decked in a golden yellow prayer gown with white skull cap while Welby was in black suit with clerical shirt and collar. They were both seated in the pictures. In one of the pictures, Buhari and Welby exchanged handshake. Those who have visited Buhari in London are former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; the party’s former national chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, Senate Presiden, Bukola Saraki, Speaker Yakubu Dogara and Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan.