• Partners WHO on health care delivery Edo State Governmemnt has disclosed it will reintroduce teaching of History in schools to allow the young generation learn about the labours of past heroes.
Besides, state-owned tertiary institutions will also be equipped to teach Bini history while scholarships would be awarded to post-graduate students interested in studying Bini History for their doctorate degrees.
Governor Godwin Obaseki disclosed this during inauguration of the Castle of Legends Initiative (COLI), a non-governmental organisation in honour of the late Chief Anthony Enahoro, a foremost nationalist, in Benin, at the weekend.
The governor observed that knowledge of history was at its lowest ebb in the country, especially among the younger generation, and disclosed that Edo will re-introduce History and that it would be taught alongside social studies.
He described Enahoro as “a vibrant journalist and nationalist, who sacrificed his life, went to jail and into exile for a better Nigeria.” Obaseki said Enahoro’s contributions to the country should be celebrated and his name immortalised the National Assembly.
COLI President, who is also the Esogban of Benin Kingdom, Chief David Edebiri, presenting a lecture entitled: ‘Immortalising Our Heroes Past, Nigerian Nationalists in Focus’, said national heroes like Enahoro needed to be appreciated for their contributions.
Edebiri expressed optimism that immortalising heroes like Enahoro, who fought for the emancipation of the country, would inspire Nigerians to be more patriotic.
Meanwhile, the state government has resolved to partner the World Health Organisation (WHO), to improve the state’s healthcare delivery, especially for those under 15 years of age.
Governor baseki made this disclosure when he hosted representatives of development partners, led by the state coordinator, Mrs Faith Ireye, at the Government House in Benin, last Friday.
The governor expressed displeasure over the challenges confronting immunisation programmes in the state and pledged that his administration would leverage on the tools and approaches of WHO to get things done properly.
“We want to work with you, to deal with the challenges in our health sector. I am scared that if we do not begin to address the health and education challenges of the under-15 population, which constitutes a high percentage of the state’s population, we will be endangering our future.”
On her part, Ireye said the visit was to intimate the governor on the organisation’s activities executed in 2016 in collaboration with the state ministry of health.
She said the state is still faced with challenges in the implementation of its immunisation programmes and the management of Lassa fever.