BY RITA OKOYE Gone are the days when having a child out of wedlock was like a stigma, but today, courtesy of celebrities on the entertainment scene, it has become a trend and a yardstick to measure success. The Entertainers takes a peep into the lives of some top male celebrities who have children from more than one woman. Enjoy it. IK Ogbonna: 1 baby mama, 1 wife Actor and model, IK Ogbonna and his gorgeous wife, Sonia Moralez have a cute son together, called Ace. The Colombian beauty is also aware that the actor has a four-year-old daughter. The identity of IK’s first baby mama had been hidden from the public, until he started showing her off on his Instagram page. Flavour: 2 baby mamas Afropop star, Flavour Na’bania is a father of two adorable baby girls from two beauty queens: Sandra Okagbue and Anna Banner. Although, his second baby mama, Anna Banner has broken up with him on grounds of insincerity, Flavour doesn’t seem to be bothered, as he had earlier said that he was not interested in marriage. Oritsefemi: 2 baby mamas Nigeria’s wave-making music star, Oristefemi had revealed that he has two baby mamas who gave birth to two daughters for him. And more interesting is the fact that the ‘Double Wahala’ crooner doesn’t intend to marry any of them. When asked his intentions for his baby mamas, the singer was quoted to have said: ‘Honestly, for now, I am not married. But definitely, I am going to get married very soon. I have a fiancée and we have been together for close to two years now. ‘I have two beautiful daughters who are between 10 and 11 years. I have a family and I’m from a polygamous home. I have a responsibility as a father. My two daughters are from different mothers and I am not marrying any of them.’ JJC: 3 baby mamas, 1 wife Multi-talented and award-winning producer-cum-musician, JJC, unbelievably has three baby mamas and three grown up kids. And like Oritsefemi, JJC, who is also known as Mr. Skillz, didn’t marry any of them. Born Abdul Rasheed Bello, JJC is now happily married to star actress, Funke Akindele aka Jenifa. Speaking on the major reasons he is not marrying any of his baby mamas, the artiste said: “It takes more than just being in love to make a relationship work. We were all young when these things happened. We are still very good friends. I love the mothers of my children so much for always being in support of me and my children. However, two of my baby mamas are already married, just one of them is remaining.” 9ice: 2 baby mamas, 1 ex-wife The musician and his fiancee, Olasunkanmi Ajala welcomed their first child together, a baby girl in late 2014. Olasunkanmi is the Creative Director of an event management and decor company, De Sky Events. The lovebirds have been together for a while and their relationship has been blessed with a bundle of joy. The baby is 9ice’s 4th child. His first son, Zion, was born while he was married to his ex-wife, Toni Payne in 2008, he also had a set of twin girls with his then girlfriend, Victoria ‘Vicky” Godis soon after thus making him the proud baby daddy of four kids from three women. Tuface Idibia: 2 baby mamas, one wife When in February 14, 2012, celebrated singer, Innocent Idibia, well known as Tuface Idibia, proposed to his then long time girlfriend, Annie Macaulay, many thought he was in for a big trouble. This was because at the time he begged the up and coming actress for her hand in marriage, one of his baby mamas, Pero Adeniyi, was actually pregnant. Adeniyi later delivered a child, a cute baby boy for the Benue State-born music star. As at then, another of his baby mama, Sunmbo Ajaba, who is presently married, had had two children for the singer. After their glamorous wedding, his wife, Annie, who had had a child for him even before he proposed, added another baby girl to the Idibia family, making the musician a father of seven kids from three different women. Tee Billz: 3 baby mamas, 1 ex-wife Tiwa Savage’s estranged husband, Tee Billz, already had two children from his ex-girlfriends before he got married to the sensational singer. According to sources, the ex-lovers dated for a couple of years and the romance resulted in two beautiful girls. However, Tiwa also recently revealed that his estranged hubby has a third child from another woman and she only knew about him after they had tied the knots. Meanwhile, Tee Billz and Tiwa have a baby boy together named Jamil before their union hit the brick walls. Segun Arinze: 2 baby mamas, 1 ex- wife, 1 current wife He is one of the veterans of Nollywood and still very relevant in the industry. Segun Arinze, in a recent interview, admitted that he has six kids from different women including one from his ex-wife, Ann Njemanze. “I’m married to a lovely woman called Julie. I have children too. Em…from my wife (Julie), I have Ayo, Femi and my new baby daughter, Victoria Ejiamatu. And, of course, before then, you know I had a son and then we had Morenike between Ann and me. I also have Ebunoluwa,” he said. Wizkid: 2 baby mamas After Boluwatife, acclaimed starboy, Wizkid, allegedly has another baby mama, Binta Diallo, who had a baby boy for him a year ago. Although, the Ojuelegba singer is yet to acknowledge the new addition to his family, DNA test has confirmed that he sowed the seed that produced the baby boy who has already been named after him. Pasuma: 3 baby mamas Fuji star, Alhaji Wasiu Alabi Adetola better known as Pasuma, has more than three baby mamas and 10 children. His baby mamas are top socialite women but the popular singer hinted that he is not ready to marry any of them. Davido: 2 baby mamas Davido, just like his contemporary, Wizkid is reportedly going to be a father for the second time. The self-acclaimed Omo Baba Olowo is expecting his second child with US-based girlfriend, Amanda (called Mandy by her close pals). Amanda whose baby is expected to arrive in April or May this year is born to Cape Verdean and Togolese parents. The student of Georgia State University would turn 25 in September 2017. Before Amanda’s baby, Davido and Sophie Momodu, who is Ovation’s CEO, Dele Momodu’s cousin, have a year old daughter, Imade together.