Ahead May 29, an international media organisation has applauded the development strides of the Rivers State governor, Barrister Nyeson Wike. A statement by Bizentol Integrity Media Limited, publishers of Strikee Magazine not only named Governor Wike as Pillar of Nigeria’s democracy but commended him for his commitment to the well-being of the people of the state through massive infrastructural development, regular payment of workers’ salaries and restoration of peace in the state. The statement signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Bisi Ezekiel said Governor Wike was picked for his contributions to the development of the country, his accountability in the conduct of politics and governance as well as his decency and integrity in public and social affairs. “He is a shining example, beacon of hope for sustainable democracy in the country and a pillar of our nationhood”. The statement described Governor Wike as one of the most progressive voices for structured change in Nigeria. “The award is in recognition of his outstanding achievements in office as governor of Rivers State and his promotion of good governance and deepening of democracy in the country, his large heart, incapability of harbouring prejudice or vengeance and his uncompromising attitude to corruption” Abia State Governor, Victor Ikpeazu was also selected as an outstanding governor for his outstanding accomplishment in tackling the multi-faceted problems of development in Abia State as well as his commitment to alleviating the plight of the ordinary people. “After a painstaking and critical appraisal of all the state governors and the impact of their programmes on the citizenry, we are happy to inform the general public that Governor Ikpeazu has been selected as Strikee Magazine outstanding governor. The statement identified massive development of urban and rural roads across the state, diversification of the state’s economy, rural development, proper equipping and staffing of health institutions, regular payment of salaries and pensions, reduction of wastage and leakages in revenue collection processes, improvement in educational facilities, concrete support for security agencies, affordable transportation system, micro- credit scheme that has affected the lives of people in the state, youth empowerment scheme and sports development as areas that set Governor Ikpeazu apart as a leader of vision. “His accomplishments since he came to power have given succor to the ordinary people and hope to millions” the statement said. The Pillar of Democracy concept is to showcase a unique individual who has affected his society in creative and productive ways more than anyone else. It is also to encourage patriotic leadership.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 