Former governor of Abia State, Dr Orji Kalu, has said the return of President Muhammadu Buhari from the United Kingdom, last Friday, has brought stability into the polity. Kalu told newsmen in Lagos, on Sunday, that Nigerians are happy that the president came back in good health. On January 19, Buhari left Nigeria for a 10-day medical vacation, to the United Kingdom and also, transmitted power to his deputy, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. On, February 5, the president transmitted another letter to the Senate, where he informed lawmakers that he would be staying back in London, to receive results of tests by his , doctors. Kalu said: “Now that the president is back, I am very happy; we have been praying. Both Christians and Muslims have been praying because the country has been so polarised to the extent that tribalism and religion have eaten into the fabric of our nation. “So, I am very happy that the president is back and I want him to listen to his doctor’s advice and continue to take his medication, if any.” The former governor noted that the president had kept his campaign promise of restoring peace to the North East, which has been bogged down by the activities of Boko Haram. “I know that the president has done well in the area of defence and pursuing Boko Haram; I congratulate him as Commander in Chief. I also praise the service chiefs – the Chief of Army Staff, the Chief of Air Staff and the Inspector General of Police as well as the Director of State Services, for their backup operation on Boko Haram.” The former governor, however, called on government to intensify efforts towards improving the economic situation in the country. “Buhari took over when there were lots of doubts in the economy; he took over when oil prices went down sharply. And, whenever your expenditure is more than your income, then there is already recession. “So I am not sure that recession is just going to end so soon. “I believe now that the president is back, he should be able to finetune the economic team and put some recovery policies in place. The most important thing government should look into is the issue of electricity and internal security. “Internal security and electricity are the engine room that drive development and the future of any country. “I believe these things can be done,’’ Kalu said. • See full interview on page 43