At some point in our lives and for a number of reasons, nearly all of us will have difficulties sleeping and suffer from acute insomnia. This can lead to significant distress and if it persists may cause a lot of healthproblems ranging from obesity and high blood pressure to mood changes and decreased productivity.Weakened immune system, accelerated tumor growth, hormonal imbalance, lack of freshness,accelerated aging, constant headache, eye ache, impaired memory, low energy levels, inability to think clearly, confusion, loss of coordination and emotional instability are some other effects of impaired sleep on ones health. But have no fear! There are simple steps to take that will help you get a better night’s sleep: Don’t lie awake, struggling in bed as your body may start to think it is a place for difficulties. People who have difficulty initiating sleep often toss and turn in bed, trying to force sleep to come. If this happens night after night, you may begin to associate your bed with the anxiety of not being able to sleep. If you’re unable to get to sleep within 20 minutes of going to bed, go to another quiet place and lie down until you feel ready to fall asleep, then return to your bedroom to sleep. Do not go for that “magic” sleeping aid to make you get a good night’s rest. Victims, who are on long-term sleeping medication, end up being addicted to the pills. As it may seem impossible for them to fall asleep unless they take their medication. Aim to get up and go to bed at the same time every day, even on weekends. We are creatures of habit, and our sleep is no exception. Once you determine your sleep needs, you should do your best to meet those needs every day. By consistently going to bed and getting up at the same time, we condition our body to follow a regular pattern of sleep. This allows our body’s natural clockto help initiate and maintain our sleep.And so if we continuously  tell our body “time for bed now”,  it will at some point, start to listen! Avoid habits/things that can ruin your sleep. For instance, eating or drinking in the few hours right before going to bed, may lead to disruptions of your sleep.Discomfort with heartburn or acid reflux, as well as needing to get up multiple times to urinate, can be very disruptive to a good night’s sleep. It’s best to avoid these situations by not eating or drinking in thefew hours prior to bedtime. Avoid caffeine, especially when it is not  efficiently metabolized in your system, thereby leaving you feeling its effects long after consumption. That afternoon cup of coffee may be what is keeping you from falling asleep at night. Technology is one of the contributory factors to sleeplessness and somehow, we have managed to make our bedroom a multipurpose room – for watching television, doing work and even gaming. Bedrooms are for relaxing, sleeping and sex, so all work/electronics should be removed! Televisions, gaming systems, computers, telephones, and various other gadgets which are stimulating and disruptive to sleep. Don’t allow them in your bedroom and don’t use them in the brief period before going to bed. Even the small amount of light from a computer screen in the evening hours can stimulate your brain into thinking it is time to be awake. Needless to add that a phone ring can keep you awake all night. Make sure your sleep environment is quiet, dark, cool, and comfortable. Your bedroom should not be a source of stress. Studies find that sleeping in a cool environment is most conducive to sleep. By eliminating excess noise and light, we can minimize the disruptions that might wake us up. Develop good sleep rituals, which may include quiet activities such as reading  minutes before bedtime, listening to relaxing music, or even taking a nice, hot bath. These daily sleep rituals prior to going to bed allow you to unwind and mentally prepared for going to sleep. In addition to the above steps, there are herbs that will make you get a better night’s sleep: Lettuce : This vegetable contains a sleep-inducing substance called ‘letucarium’. The juice of lettuce has been likened in effect to the sedative action of opium without the accompanying excitement. A ¼ tumbler is taken preferably 30-60 minutes before bedtime. Bananas : Contain tryptophan, potassium and magnesium which are muscle relaxants. Have one a banana an hour before bed every night to up your magnesium levels while simultaneously relaxing your muscles. Note that bananas contain carbohydrates too, and since blood glucose responses can vary from person to person, diabetics should take with care. You may go for the less sugary species. Passifloraedulis(Passion flower, utu-oyibo) : This will bring a sense of calm as well as relieve pains and muscular spasms. Experts agree that it is one of the best herbs for sound sleep as it naturally reduces anxiety and helps fight sleeplessness. 1 teaspoon of the dried herb  is to be infused in boiled water for 30 minutes and taken before bedtime. Be careful not to exceed recommended dosage. The strength needed will vary from person to person. Catnip (Nepetacataria, cat mint, egbaowoopolo in Yoruba) : A member of the mint family, Lamiaceae with a mild sedative effect. It makes a relaxing and soothing tea. The compound responsible for catnip’s effects is nepetalactone. It also contains calcium, magnesium, potassium, selenium, phosphorous, manganese as well as vitamins A, B and C. It’s natural carminative properties may help relieve stress, anxiety, migraines and thus beneficial for those who suffer from  sleeplessness.  Enjoy it in the form of a warm tea before bed with a little bit of honey to get you relaxed, drowsy, and ready for bed. To make a catnip tea, place 1-2 tablespoons of the dried leaves in a teacup  and cover with hot water. Steep for 10 minutes, covered, and then add honey, if you desire. Daturametel (gegemu or ewe ikan in Yoruba) : A sedative, analgesic with relaxing properties which would make a soothing infusion to be used last thing at night. Flowers are pleasantly scented preferably employed in bath infusions and used with caution. Magnesium(the stress reliever) : Plays a huge role in the functioning of GABA, gamma-aminobutyric acid, which is the primary neurotransmitter that calms your central nervous system, relaxes you, and can help prepare you for sleep. Including soy beans, spinach, banana, watermelon, cashew nuts, almond, kidney beans, pumpkin seeds and oats  all of which contain magnesium in your diet may help with symptoms associated with sleeplessness. While the best way to up magnesium is to eat a balanced diet, taking supplements can greatly help. The most important advice is to respect that your body needs to sleep.Make sleep a priority. Don’t sacrifice sleep to do daytime activities. 