LAST Monday, Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the US House Intelligence Committee laid out the public evidence on Russian meddling in the 2016 US presidential election.  Excerpts: Whether the Russian active measures campaign began as nothing more than an attempt to gather intelligence, or was always intended to be more than that, we do not know, and is one of the questions we hope to answer.  But we do know this: the months of July and August 2016 appear to have been pivotal.  It was this time that the Russians began using the information they had stolen to help Donald Trump and harm Hillary Clinton… In early July, Carter Page, someone candidate Trump identified as one of his national security advisors, travels to Moscow on a trip approved by the Trump campaign.  While in Moscow, he gives a speech critical of the United States and other western countries for what he believes is a hypocritical focus on democratization and efforts to fight corruption.\ According to Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer who is reportedly held in high regard by US Intelligence, Russian sources tell him that Page has had a secret meeting with Igor Sechin )SHE-CHIN), CEO of Russian gas giant Rosneft.  Sechin is reported to be a former KGB agent and close friend of Putin’s.  According to Steele’s Russian sources, Page is offered brokerage fees by Sechin on a deal involving a 19 percent share of the company.  According to Reuters, the sale of a 19.5 percent share in Rosneft later takes place, with unknown purchasers and unknown brokerage fees.  Also, according to Steele’s Russian sources, the Trump campaign is offered documents damaging to Hillary Clinton, which the Russians would publish through an outlet that gives them deniability, like Wikileaks.  The hacked documents would be in exchange for a Trump Administration policy that de-emphasizes Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and instead focuses on criticizing NATO countries for not paying their fair share – policies which, even as recently as the President’s meeting last week with Angela Merkel, have now presciently come to pass. In the middle of July, Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign manager and someone who was long on the payroll of Pro-Russian Ukrainian interests, attends the Republican Party convention.  Carter Page, back from Moscow, also attends the convention.  According to Steele, it was Manafort who chose Page to serve as a go-between for the Trump campaign and Russian interests.  Ambassador Kislyak, who presides over a Russian embassy in which diplomatic personnel would later be expelled as likely spies, also attends the Republican Party convention and meets with Carter Page and additional Trump Advisors JD Gordon and Walid Phares.  It was JD Gordon who approved Page’s trip to Moscow.  Ambassador Kislyak also meets with Trump campaign national security chair and now Attorney General Jeff Sessions.  Sessions would later deny meeting with Russian officials during his Senate confirmation hearing. Just prior to the convention, the Republic Party platform is changed, removing a section that supports the provision of “lethal defensive weapons” to Ukraine, an action that would be contrary to Russian interests.  Manafort categorically denies involvement by the Trump campaign in altering the platform.  But the Republican Party delegate who offered the language in support of providing defensive weapons to Ukraine states that it was removed at the insistence of the Trump campaign.  Later JD Gordon admits opposing the inclusion of the provision at the time it was being debated and prior to its being removed. Later in July, and after the convention, the first stolen emails detrimental to Hillary Clinton appear on Wikileaks.  A hacker who goes by the moniker Guccifer 2.0 claims responsibility for hacking the DNC and giving the documents to Wikileaks.  But leading private cyber security firms including CrowdStrike, Mandiant, and ThreatConnect review the evidence of the hack and conclude with high certainty that it was the work of APT28 and APT29, who were known to be Russian intelligence services.  The US Intelligence community also later confirms that the documents were in fact stolen by Russian intelligence and Guccifer 2.0 acted as a front.  Also in late July, candidate Trump praises Wikileaks, says he loves them, and openly appeals to the Russians to hack his opponents’ emails, telling them that they will be richly rewarded by the press.  On August 8th, Roger Stone, a longtime Trump political advisor and self-proclaimed political dirty trickster, boasts in a speech that he “has communicated with Assange” and that more documents would be coming, including an “October surprise.”  In the middle of August, he also communicates with the Russian cutout Guccifer 2.0 and authors a Breitbart piece denying Guccifer’s links to Russian intelligence.  Then, later in August, Stone does something truly remarkable, when he predicts that John Podesta’s personal emails will soon be published.  “Trust me, it will soon be Podesta’s time in the barrel. #Crooked Hillary.” In the weeks that follow, Stone shows a remarkable prescience: “I have total confidence that @wikileaks and my hero Julian Assange will educate the American people soon.  #Lockherup.  “Payload coming,” he predicts, and two days later, it does.  Wikileaks releases its first batch of Podesta emails.  The release of John Podesta’s emails would then continue on a daily basis up to election day. On Election Day in November, Donald Trump wins.  Donald Trump appoints one of his high profile surrogates, Michael Flynn, to be his national security adviser.  Michael Flynn has been paid by the Kremlin’s propaganda outfit, RT, and other Russian entities in the past.  In December, Michael Flynn has a secret conversation with Ambassador Kislyak about sanctions imposed by President Obama on Russia over its hacking designed to help the Trump campaign.  Michael Flynn lies about this secret conversation.  The Vice President, unknowingly, then assures the country that no such conversation ever happened.  The President is informed Flynn has lied, and Pence has misled the country.  The President does nothing.  Two weeks later, the press reveals that Flynn has lied and the President is forced to fire Mr. Flynn.  The President then praises the man who lied, Flynn, and castigates the press for exposing the lie. Now, is it possible that the removal of the Ukraine provision from the GOP platform was a coincidence?  Is it a coincidence that Jeff Sessions failed to tell the Senate about his meetings with the Russian Ambassador, not only at the convention, but a more private meeting in his office and at a time when the US election was under attack by the Russians? Is it a coincidence that Michael Flynn would lie about a conversation he had with the same Russian Ambassador Kislyak about the most pressing issue facing both countries at the time they spoke – the US imposition of sanctions over Russian hacking of our election designed to help Donald Trump.  Is it a coincidence that the Russian gas company Rosneft sold 19 per cent share after former British Intelligence Officer Steele was told by Russian sources that Carter Page was offered fees on a deal of just that size? Is it a coincidence that Steele’s Russian sources also affirmed that Russia had stolen documents hurtful to Secretary Clinton that it would utilize in exchange for pro-Russian policies that would later come to pass?…