A group, the Obiano Support Group has dismissed the allegation of constitutional breaches against Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State by the state chapter of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC). Chairman of the group, Chief Jude Emecheta, made this known, in Awka, on Thursday. IPAC had on February 24, issued a five-day ultimatum to the House of Assembly to commence investigation of Obiano for alleged constitutional breaches. Some of the breaches, include non-conduct of council polls, and alleged plan to appoint Caretaker Committees for local governments. He argued that IPAC did not have the locus-standi to issue such orders or threat as it was not a political party. He accused IPAC of working with wrong information passed on to it by a faction of one the political parties in Anambra. The APGA stalwart described as false allegations that Obiano was planning to appoint transition committees at the councils. Emecheta urged members of IPAC to go back to their various parties and work toward the Nov.18 governorship election in the state rather than trying to cause confusion in Anambra State. “The allegation by IPAC against Obiano is frivolous, unfounded and unfortunate; they are at best ‘busybodies’ seeking recognition. “Gov Obiano has not breached any law known to us, they are alleging that he plans to appoint transition committees but that is not true, what the governor is planning are liaison officers and that does not stop the election at the council. “As a matter of fact, neither Obiano nor APGA is afraid of election, the governor is ready to conduct elections and we shall beat them as usual. “IPAC is an advisory body, they are members of political parties, let them go to their parties and prepare for elections. It simply shows that they are afraid of confronting at the polls,” he said. Emecheta urged the House to ignore the impeachment order by IPAC and focus on deliberating and passing of bills that would serve the people of the state. Meanwhile, the Acting Chairman of IPAC in Anambra, Mrs Kate Okafor, told NAN that the body had written the house a reminder letter compelling them to investigate Obiano. Okafor said IPAC was determined to see that democratic principles were upheld in the state. “The House of Assembly has not addressed our petition but we have written a reminder to them to investigate the allegations against the governor. “Anambra is our state and we want to ensure that due process is followed,” Okafor said. (NAN)