…Urges Gov Umahi to revive coy From: Emmanuel Uzor, Abakaliki Former Commonwealth Secretary General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, on Thursday, was moved to tears over the parlous state of the Nigeria Cement Factory (NIGERCEM), in Nkalagu, Ebonyi State. He then called on Governor David Umahi  to extend his developmental effort in resuscitating the first Nigeria cement factory. Anyaoku speaking during the 7th edition of an annual lecture series usually held in his honour at the International Conference Centre Abakaliki, said NigerCem was once the pride of Eastern Nigeria and expressed the need to resuscitate the factory which had gone moribund for years. “I urge Governor David Umahi and his administration to extend his determination in developing the state by resuscitating what was once the pride of eastern Nigeria, the Nkalagu Cement industry which is the first cement company in Ngeria”. He however, Commended Governor David Umahi for what he termed his resolve in ensuring rapid development and prompt payment of workers’ salaries when other states were owing many months salaries. Anyaoku further appreciated the President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Dr. Nnia Nwodo for accepting to be the chairman of the occasion and noted that his election as president of Ohaneze Ndigbo has once again signaled the significant roles of Igbos in the affairs of the country. In his remarks, Governor Umahi, who was represented by the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Augustine Nwankwegu, informed Anyaoku that Ebonyi state government was doing everything possible to revitalize Nigercem factory, adding that the factory had been handed over to Ibeto Cement Company to resuscitate. The Governor who said his administration had begun construction of the road leading to the factory which has reached advanced stage and expressed optimism that Ibeto cement factory would bring the NigerCem factory to life any time soon. The Chairman of the occasion, Dr. Nwodo said the lecture was remarkable in view of the numerous achievements of the personality in whose honour the programme was held and explained that the choice of focusing this year’s lecture on agriculture was borne out of the renewed interests of government on Agriculture. 