From: TONY JOHN,  Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, has lauded the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) for the role it has played so far in dislodging of  the dreaded  Boko Haram terrorists in the North East part of the country. Speaking on Monday, during a courtesy visit to Government House, Port Harcourt, by Commander of the Nigerian Air Force 115 Special Operations Group, Air Commodore Mahmud Madi, Governor Wike noted that without the  air power of the Air Force, it would have been difficult  to  dislodge the terrorists  from their  strongholds. He said: “Nigerian Air Force has done very well in the fight against Boko Haram in the North East. Without your  air power, it would have been difficult to dislodge the Boko Haram terrorists “. The governor added: “I want to commend the Nigerian Air Force for the sacrifices you have made for the security of the country.  Please, keep it up “. The governor  also lauded the  Nigerian Air Force for being apolitical as they focus their attention  on security issues. He said that the  people of Rivers State enjoyed a good working relationship with the Nigerian Air Force because  the security agency  has never been  indicted  for the snatching of electoral materials during elections. He said: “The only problem  I have with security agencies is when they  get themselves  involved  in  the  snatching of electoral materials. “The Nigerian Air Force and the Nigerian Navy have always kept away from electoral  malpractices.  Our relationship will continue to wax stronger  as long as the Nigerian Air Force concentrates on security matters”. The governor  also  called on the Nigerian Air Force to assist the State Government  to stop street trading on Aba Road  near the Air Force Base. He urged the Force to release  the plot of land near the base for the State Government to construct a modern park for the relocation  of vehicles  that park by the road close to the Air Force Base. Earlier, Air Commodore Madi had assured Governor Wike that the group would work  towards enhancing the security of the state. He called on the governor  to assist the group  with logistics  in the  discharge of their duties. 