I am kicking – off with the text messages I received from two of the nine women among the 36 people who reacted to last week’s column on Pastor Lazarus Muoka, the General Overseer of The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministries. The first was from Hadija Usman (070-30 – – – – 45), a Muslim and a northerner living in a town in the North, who with members of her immediate family now belong to Pastor Muoka’s church. Whose message reads: “Mr. Adedipe honestly speaking, if we will have two of Pastor Muoka in this world, the world would have been a better and safer place for us all. Although we Muslims don’t believe in miracles, but because of Pastor, I now believe in miracles. God indeed called him. And I must tell you that my family and I are now Chosen people. Mark it, you’re in for miracles and testimonies for what you wrote about Pastor Muoka. I have held back the other figures in Hadija’s number to prevent Muslims from phoning to abuse or curse her for leaving their religion for Christianity. The second text which came on Wednesday through G.S.M number 081-7131-4907 was from Madam Ngozi who lives in Abuja and who like me is of the Anglican Communion. Her message of “May God reward you for your sermons. Please endeavour to conclude today’s write – up”, shows that it is not only the members of Muoka’s church that are fascinated by his story. And it as well shows that some readers appreciate that living righteously, obeying the laws and teachings of the Lord in their totality to achieve salvation and entry into  the Kingdom of God which the pastor preaches are the hallmark of Christianity and what a good Christian should work towards. Although it was the first time she would reach out to me, Madam Ngozi is an admirer of this column because during a telephone conversation on Thursday, she said that myself and Dele Sobowale who writes for the Sunday Vanguard, and who like me was born in 1944, seventy three years ago, are her favourite Nigerian columnists. For the reason that we write well – researched, very educative, objective, non – partisan and detribalized articles in matured manner. As those who have been reading this nine – year – old column in the last six years know, I am someone Almighty God has been speaking with one – to – one since Tuesday, February 18, 1969. And one who has written of Him telling him that there is a Day of Judgment and that the ordeals of Job which duration is not revealed in the Holy Bible lasted 30 years. For those who are new to my column, there is evidence that the Ancient of Days talks with me the way He did with Moses and others in the Holy Bible. In 2011, I wrote in this column that the Lord told Dr. Ore Falomo and myself during a spiritual retreat in Ado – Ekiti on September 24, 1994 that He caused the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by his patient, Chief Moshood Abiola, to be annulled. Because he failed to reward adequately the 41 clerics He raised to fast and pray for 41 days to make his victory possible and for not meeting the deadline He gave him to do so. I repeated the story in 2014 or so. But six and three years after, Falomo is yet to offer any refutation. So, it was because Abiola failed to keep to the promise he made to God to reward the clerics that caused the election he won to be declared null and void. Something the Heavenly Father warned people not to do in Leviticus 19 verse 12. And the reason why He made seven of the eight male descendants of King Saul to be executed in 2 Samuel 21:1-14. For not keeping to the agreement Joshua and the leaders of Israel made not to attack the Gibeonites (Joshua 9:1-21). It is the knowledge that I have that in modern times God still punishes people who go against His laws and teachings in the Holy Bible that made me decide to write about Pastor Muoka, for people to take his warnings against unisex dressing and other sinful acts seriously. Let me chip it in here that what people in the world today wear still matters to the Ancient of Days because five years ago He told me it is not good for men and women to dress indecently and against His order on unisex clothing and that it is an insult for any traditional ruler to wear a crown or cap inside a church because only the priests among the male are allowed to wear caps inside the church as made plain by Moses in Exodus 28: 31 – 43. I have more to write on this when I deal with His reply to my question on whether or not African ancestors worshipped Him or idols. So, it is in the interest of everyone to listen to Pastor Muoka’s warning on unisex dressing and other vices in the interest of their hereafter. To be continued next week Wednesday. Ikeja Disco rectifies vexatious bill I doff my hat and offer immense gratitude to the highly placed senior officer in the Federal Ministry of Power in Abuja for the speedy way he responded and solved the problems I raised in the lead article in my column two weeks ago with the headline: Appeal to Fasola on my latest Disco bill. But at his request I will not disclose his name or his official title. I just pray that the Mighty Lord continues to shower His blessings on him and his family. My appreciation and thanks actually begin with Prince Tayo Obisanya of Suleja, a reader of this column who went to Abuja to see the officer over the vexatious bill of seven thousand, six hundred and ninety – three naira and fifty – six kobo
(N7, 693.56) given to me by the Ikeja Disco for January 2017. When the bills for November and December, last year were one thousand, three hundred and forty – one naira and ninety kobo (N1, 341:90) and one thousand, nine hundred and sixty – eight naira and twelve kobo (N1, 968:12) respectively. To the Lord be the glory that a reader I have never met and who only started reacting to my column about a year ago, has developed such interest in what I write that he travelled to Abuja to pursue the matter on my behalf.  God bless him and his family. For continuation next week 