The Adeleye Ruling House and royal family of Odi-Olowo community in Mushin Local Government, Lagos State, have restated their lineage stake in the Odi-Olowo kingship and traditional stool. The families are also planning to immortalise Oba Sulaimon Adewusi Adeleye I, the Olu of Odi-Olowo, who joined his ancestors on October 28, 1981. Head of Adeleye royal lineage, Prince Idris Adedoyin Adeleye, described the first class traditional ruler asan inspiration and embodiment of truth and integrity. He said: “The clarification came in the wake of clear and present development among the royal lineages and traditional chieftaincy council in Odi-Olowo, Mushin, which facts and historical records should be a guiding light in the choice, screening and ratification of prospective Olu of Odi-Olowo as a prelude to peace, unity and community development.” According to him, Oba Sulaimon Adeleye who reigned between 1956 and 1981 as the first Olu of Odi-Oluwo was installed and crowned accordingly by the Baale and Chieftaincy Committee of Odi-Oluwo, at the RoundHouse Playground, on Sunday March 4, 1956, under the chairmanship of Mr. Sanusi Ajalaruru: “I believe the place of truth, integrity and good conscience is the place where we should be found no matter the stakes, whether or not that is also the place of wealth and fame. The Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs should always uphold the tenets and principles of truth, justice and integrity in its handing of chieftaincy matters such that we could avoid installing an impostor who has not fulfilled the due process including the Ipebi rites of ascension. “The Adeleye family after consultations with family members and traditional institutions decided to set the records   straight on Adeleye royal lineage in Odi-Olowo, Mushin for posterity. It is on record that Oba Adeleye was initially installed Baale Masewele Area on August 18, 1952, prior to his coronation as Olu of Odi-Olowo in 1956 by Chief Obafemi Awolowo. “The situation is such that Oba Adeleye royal lineage has contributed immensely to the social and economy development of the state and will never be forgotten. The royal family has expressed confidence in the head of the family, Prince Adedoyin Adeleye, as an icon and philanthropist whose footprints will be able to march or surpass the legacy left by Oba Adeleye.” 