From: Chidi Nnadi, Enugu The South-East zone of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has inaugurated disciplinary and fund raising/finance committees to ensure the party has a firm grip of the region. The disciplinary committee is headed by a former member of the Federal House of Representatives from Imo State, Hon. Uche Onyeagocha, while the  fund raising/finance committee is headed by a one-time governorship aspirant, Chief Gbazueagu Nweke Gbazueagu. Swearing in the members of the two committees in Enugu, the party said that it would no longer condone any form of indiscipline and misconduct amongst its members. According to the party, the disciplinary committee has the mandate to maintain discipline in all the five states chapters of the party in the zone, as well as recommend punitive measures against erring members. The party also said that the fund raising/finance committee would liaise with the Imo State governor, Chief Rochas Okorocha, members of the National Assembly and appointees from the zone to raise funds for the party in the region. Speaking during the inauguration of the two committees, the APC National Vice Chairman, South-East, Hon Emma Eneukwu, described the committees as the life-wires of the party in the zone. He urged members of the party to imbibe Article 9.2, which among other things enjoined them to conduct themselves in a manner that shall not bring the party to public odium and disrepute. “It gives me immense pleasure to welcome all of you, distinguished change agents to this very important event, to inaugurate two very important committees for the party in the zone. “These committees for the zone, to say the least, are among the life-wires of our great party in the South-East. “It is said that a disciplined organization is a successful organization. Organizational goals are achieved and sustained through maintenance of discipline and order. In fact, it is the bedrock and foundation on which our party’s change mantra rest,” he said. Enukwu  also urged members of the finance and fund raising committee to live up to the expectations of the party, pointing out that finance is the nerve centre of any organization. He said that when “the nervous system is weak, the blood cannot be speedily circulated.” Responding on behalf of the other members of the committees, Chief Gbazueagu promised that they would live up to the expectations of the party, as well as discharge their responsibilities diligently. Other members of the  committees include former Speaker and acting governor of Abia State, Stanley Ohajuruka; ex- Minister of Labour and Productivity, Chief Emeka Nwaogu; the Managing Director of Peace Mass Transit Company, Dr Sam Onyishi, among others.  