By Gilbert Ekezie Title: How Africans Vandalise Africa Pages: 407 Author: Adaobi Whyte Reviewer: Gilbert Ekezie The book, How Africans Vandalise Africa, exposes and laments the destiny, slave mentality and wickedness of the black African from the indigenous slavery to the Cross Atlantic Slave trade, importation of Christianity and the Islamic religion into Africa. The author, Chief Mrs Adaobi Whyte, is a renowned fashion designer, horticulturist, social critic, politician and writer. She has, over the years, developed her knowledge by reading and seeking experience in many other areas of life. Whyte has proved, through her contributions to life and everything around her, that determination is the key to success. Having published four books – Abuse of the Nigerian Child, Plight of the Nigerian Woman, Dr. Peter Otunuya Odili Threading the Path of Destiny and Nduni Kingdom and Peaceful Co-existence– she has now come out with the fifth one, How Africans Vandalise Africa (Focusing Nigeria), which exposes and laments the destiny, slave mentality and wickedness of the Blackman. The 27 –chapter book is divided in four parts. While the first part contains seven chapters, the second part has seven chapters. Part 3 and 4 have four and nine chapters respectively. The author also writes about how Africans have become victims of religious exploitation, commercialisation, fanaticism, hypocrisy and colonisation. The author explains that Africans have enthroned themselves as slave masters, dictators and sit-tight leaders, and creating obstacles to development of the rich continent. She highlights the six tragedies that befall Africa as follows: indigenous slave trade, cross Atlantic slave trade, apartheid, importation of artificial Christianity and Islam in Africa and, recently, Chinese organisations. The author describes African religious and political leaders as creatures, who have eyes and ears that neither see nor hear. Prelude to the book, The Blackman and Racism, treats the Mindset of the Enemy, both the English and Arab, who used Africans as slaves, see Black Africans as darkness and those born to be in perpetual servitude and were ordained by God to be slaves to others forever. Chapter one deals with “Oppression the Ndoni Kingdom Experience”. Here, Whyte writes about the deplorable state of Niger Delta and the untold suffering the vandals have plunged the people for eternity. In chapter three, “The Unbroken Curses”, she regrets that Africans carry the Bible in their hands, yet oppress and vandalise the people and the continent. The chapter also makes it clear how shameful it is that a black leader loots his nation’s treasury, deposits the money abroad, and another black leader pleads for help to recover the loot. According to the author, while Black Africans cry that the whites came to steal their money, but today, they steal the wealth and carry to the whites. Whyte, in the book, also observes that, since the Whites granted independence to African nations, the citizens lost their dignity. So, she expected that Nigerians would turn to God after the death of Abacha; but the leaders, politicians and privileged individuals have continued stealing from general coffers, as well as vandalising facets of Nigeria and Africa, sitting majestically on their master seats, ruling over their slaves. In conclusion, the author laments that, while African leaders boast of going to campaign for change of their countries image, the masses stand before the world stinking. The piece is a must-read for anyone who wants to know more about the excruciating condition of black Africans.