From Paul Osuyi, Asaba PROVISION of  hostel accommodation for students of  Delta State-owned College of Education, Agbor,  has  received  a  boost  with  the  dedication  of  Our Lady of Perpetual  Help  Hostel,  built   by  members  of   the Catholic  Women  Organisation (CWO), Iselle-Uku  Diocese.
The hostel,   with 22 self-contain rooms (bed sitter), four flats of one bedroom each,  and four stores, is located on Alihame Road in Agbor. It was constructed through direct labour at  the cost of over N25 million, and  they  are  expected  to  be  occupied  by female students.
At  the dedication preceded by a thanksgiving mass at  the All Saints Catholic Church, Agbor, Bishop of  the Diocese, Most  Rev. (Dr.) Michael Odogwu Elue,  said  women are  very  key to missions  and missionaries. Represented  by the CWO Diocesan Chaplain, Rev. Father Franklyn Odiaka, he advised women to keep doing the work of God at home and outside their homes:
“When  you  look at the scriptures, you  see  that women  not only took care of Jesus at one point or the other, they were even there at the foot of the cross, and after the death and resurrection of Christ, women played prominent role.
“I will advise women to keep on keeping on, keep on carrying the fire, keep on doing the work of God even in their homes and outside their homes. Our job is to spread Christianity, our job to go out and tell people about Christ in any way we can.” he  said.
Odiaka said  the hostel  was  open  to female students “who has a goodwill and  who has come to school to study and  to learn. It  is open to every girl who is interested in education. This hostel is  girls’ hostel,  where we have children of God to come in and live, and they are not just living here, they will be taught the way of the missions,  so that when they grow and become mothers, they will be able to carry on with  the work of God.”
Former president of  the CWO in the diocese, Dr. (Mrs.) Philomena Ifeanyi Onwuka, was  elated: “We started the celebration with mass at All Saints Catholic Church. I am going to hand over  today,  to the next executive. We are celebrating triple events. First, we are thanking God for the success of  my executive, then,  we are using the opportunity to bless this building which we have built, through  the efforts of  the women. This building costs us over N25 million.”
According to her, the  reason  for embarking on the hostel project  was  to have a stable source of  income for  the organisation, adding  that  her executive   inherited the project in July, 2013,  when   they  took over  from their predecessor:
“The objective is to get little income for the diocese. It took us three and half years to raise this building to the level. The land  has already been  acquired, I inherited it at DPC level, so we were able to complete it.”
On the choice of Agbor for the project ahead of Asaba, Delta State capital, and Iselle-Uku, the headquarters  of  the diocese, Mrs. Onwuka explained: “We wanted  it at Asaba because of  the Federal College of Education there, but we could not get land at Asaba, so, they came to Agbor and they got land here.
“We were able to mobilize funds for the project,  through being focused and appreciating women. About 80 per cent of the funds came directly from women, and we went outside to source for  others.
“It is true that we sell wrapper, and we make little income from the sales. We try to levy women N1,000.00 each,  within this period and they responded. We organized seminars annually, and we got some income from the seminars.”
In her valedictory speech, Onwuka highlighted some of the achievements of the former executives, noting that the developmental initiative of the organisation and the spirituality of women across  the diocese were greatly enhanced.
She said a total of N680,000.00 profit realised from the sales of national CWO uniform, was given to the diocese, and  that the organisation increased the fund for training  of seminarians gradually  from N40,000.00 to N120.000.00. During  the  period  under  review, she stated  that the organisation bought generator for the Pastoral Centre, as well as increased the money for the training of girls from N5,000.00 to N20,000.00.
The new president, Ezinne (Mrs.) Patricia Obiageli Nwanze, promised to build on the achievements of the out-gone executives, just as she thanked all the women for their support during her election and ratification, and pledged not to disappoint. She  listed a four-point agenda which her executive intends  to pursue  to  take the organisation to the next level.
She  explained  that  evangelism  and spiritual growth of women would  be greatly enhanced while both women, youths and the elderly,  benefit from economic empowerment,  through skill acquisition and provision of non-interest loan for businesses. 