Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Mr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has called for synergy among security agencies to enhance the safety of passengers on the nation’s roads. Oyeyemi made this known in a statement, in Abuja, on Thursday. He made the call when he inspected the newly established road safety facilities along the Kaduna-Abuja highway on Wednesday. The facilities were set up to address anticipated road traffic challenges following the temporary closure of the Abuja International Airport and diversion of air traffic to the Kaduna Airport. The Abuja Airport was closed on Wednesday to pave way for reconstruction of its runway scheduled to last for six weeks. According to him, during the period, flights will be diverted to neighbouring Kaduna Airport from where passengers to or from Abuja will travel by rail or road, aviation authorities said. Oyeyemi said that the synergy among relevant agencies was critical to ensuring the security of lives on the nation’s highways. He expressed satisfaction with the level of preparedness of the corps to cope with the anticipated traffic upsurge on the route. Oyeyemi said with the level of sensitisation already given to the staff and the facilities deployed, he did not envisage any major challenges within the six weeks that the Abuja airport would remain closed. The corps marshal disclosed that the eight newly established outposts had brought the number of FRSC commands along the corridor to 21 with four ambulance points. He assured that the personnel who would work at the outposts had been appropriately deployed with relevant logistics, including patrol vehicles, towing trucks and ambulances. The corps marshal further stated that regular patrols would be intensified along the corridor, while mobile courts would be put in place to summarily try recalcitrant traffic offenders. Oyeyemi warned that lawlessness would not be tolerated in the area, he enjoined the staff to be highly civil and modest in handling their assignments. He urged the staff to work harder to prevent cases of overloading, lane indiscipline and route violation as well as speed violation which were rampart on the road. The corps marshal called on those operating the ambulance services to always remain at alert to respond promptly to distress calls from any part of the road. Oyeyemi commended the Federal Government for the provision of adequate facilities as evidenced by the rehabilitation of the road, urging the road users to make the best use of the facilities. He was accompanied by the Zonal Commanding Officer, Zone RS1 Headquarters Kaduna, Assistant Corps Marshal Bulus Darwang and some senior officers from the National Headquarters. (NAN) 