The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has commended the Nigerian military on its war against Boko Haram insurgency in the North East. The UNSC President, Ambassador. Mathew Rycroft made the commendation Monday when he led other 14 ambassadors of the Council on the spot assessment of the Humanitarian crisis in Borno state. He said the UN security council is committed to supporting the Nigerian Military in ending the Boko Haram crisis in Nigeria. Ambassador Rycroft said, UNSC is united and resolved to help Nigerian government in overcoming its humanitarian challenges in the Lake Chad basin, as their respective countries will scale up their humanitarian assistance. He also said the crisis in the North-east will no longer be a neglected crisis, as the UN security council have assessed the situation on ground, describing it as one of the world worst humanitarian crisis in recent times. While addressing the UN Security council, the Theatre Commander ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’, Major General Lucky Irabor said the Nigerian Military has adopted a code of conduct and rules of engagement to ensure that Human right of citizen are not violated, stressing that the Army has constituted court marshal for trying ‘bad eggs’ in the military. He said the military has decimated the capacity of Boko Haram insurgents in the country, and that they (insurgents) can no longer hold any Nigerian territory, adding that, they don’t have capacity to launch coordinated and deadly attacks. While at the Government House Maiduguri, Governor Kashim Shettima called on the UN security council to scale up their assistance to the humanitarian crisis in the North-east. Shettima said his administration has accorded priority to education sector, more especially girl-child education and gender empowerment, as the root cause of the Boko Haram insurgency is illiteracy, poverty and unemployment, adding that the Borno state government is investing heavily on agriculture and called on the United Nations and international communities to assist the Nigerian government. The governor stated that in the past, the international communities have neglected the humanitarian crisis in the North-east but now commended the UN system such as ICRC, World Food Program and other UN agencies for scaling up their aid, pointing out that, like Oliver twist, they ask for more. The Security Council delegation consists of 14 UN permanent representatives from China, Japan, US, UK, Senegal among others. 