The Portuguese Minister of Science and Technology, Prof. Manuel Heitor, say his country would offer technical support to Nigeria in key biotechnology activities that will enhance tropical agriculture and food security. Heitor made this known, in a statement, made available by the Head, Protocol and Communications, National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), Mrs Ifeoma Ndefo, on Monday, in Abuja. The minister had visited the Director-General, National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), Prof. Lucy Ogbadu, with a team of experts in different fields of biotechnology from various institutions in Portugal. In his address, Heitor indicated interest of the Portuguese delegation in partnering with the NABDA on efforts to expand technologies that would enhance tropical agriculture and food security. The minister, who is also the minister of Education, declared the interest of his country in assisting NABDA scientific officers wishing to acquire Masters and P.HD degrees in Portugal. He identified areas of NABDA’s activities akin to their fields of competences such as cancer prevention, stem cell research, Biogas production (converting wastes to generate electricity) and bio-remediation. Heitor said all of these were areas of interest for collaboration as well as knowledge sharing between their institutions and NABDA. On her part, Director-General of NABDA, commended the minister and his team for their interest to partner with the Agency and to ensure that Nigeria reaps the potential benefit that biotechnology offers. The NABDA boss highlighted the various projects and activities of the five technical departments of the Agency. This included the six Centres of Excellence located at frontline universities of the each of the Six Geo-political Zones of the nation (Uni-Jos, ABU Zaria, Uni- Port, UNN, Uni-Ibadan and Uni- Maiduguri). Others are the NABDA’s Bioresources Centres (BioDecs) spread across twenty-five states of the federation. The News Agency of Nigeria recalls that the agency was established by the Federal Government to implement policy aimed at promoting, coordinating, and setting research and development priority in biotechnology for Nigeria. (NAN) 