From Obinna Odogwu, Ekwulobia Awada, a suburb of Onitsha in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State was alive recently. Residents of the area trooped out en masse into the premises of Sedes Sapientiae Nursery and Primary School to receive various gift items brought by officials of Daniel Bob Global Foundation (DBGF). Pupils from various secondary and primary schools in the community were all in attendance, resplendent in their school uniforms, just as members of the Boys Brigade that entertained the guests. The foundation came with sundry educational materials and various food items for the pupils and residents of the community. The items include several bags of rice, over 50 cartons of noodles, educational materials, sports wears and cash. Officials of the foundation said they were in the community to give some lifeline to the indigent residents. Schools that benefitted include Divine Foundation, Blessed Kids, Glasul Divine, Sure Foundation, Bright Future, Mother Care Kiddies Academy, Favoured Children British Academy, and Sedes Sapientiae Nursery/Primary Schools, among others. Founder of the organisation, Chief Daniel Orji, said the foundation was born out of his burning desire to extend the milk of human kindness to the poor. He stressed that the passion to liberate and contribute maximally to the development of the society, especially those being battered by hardship, gave birth to the organisation. “The essence of my visit to Awada today is to assist the less-privileged people, widows, widowers and all people that fall within that category who are going through very difficult situations. We also made handsome donations to the school children in this environment; providing them with some educational materials and sports wear. “Daniel Bob Global Foundation was initiated by me because I like assisting people. It serves as a platform to get closer to the needy and provide them help. Our main objective is to bring hope to the hopeless and empower humanity, to enable them achieve their fullest potential through skill acquisition and career development. “Our target is to alleviate poverty and to enhance quality of life for all. Specifically, our aim is solely to serve others. We are oriented towards providing basic helpful services to the needy which cut across children, women, and internally displaced people in our society among others,” he said. A member of the foundation’s Board of Trustees, Mr God’s-time Robinson, assured that the group would not stop assisting the needy. “The idea behind the establishment of this foundation is to give succour to the needy; to make those who are going through one difficulty or the other to understand that there will always be a way out of every situation, no matter how bad it might seem. Our intention is to touch the needy in so many positive ways,” he said. Little Miss Emmaculater Attah, who appreciated the foundation for the kind gesture on behalf of the pupils, said the educational materials would go a long way to assist the pupils’ academic pursuits. Manager of Sedes Sapientiae Nursery and Primary School, Awada, Rev. Fr. Vincent Ezenwaka, who spoke on behalf of the community, conveyed the people’s gratitude to the foundation. “We thank you for remembering the poor, widows, these little children and others,” he said.