Condemns Ohanaeze’s tours without visit to Kanu, others in prison From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha, Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and Obinna Odogwu, Ekwulobia Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has said it will not allow any pro-President Muhammadu Buhari rally in any part of Igboland. The warning came barely  hours to a planned march for the president by a group in Awka, Anambra State tomorrow. In a statement issued yesterday by MASSOB leader, Uchenna Madu, the group urged the organisers of the rally to shelve the idea of meet stiff resistance. It frowned at what it called a “secret plan by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to hire and import Hausa Fulani people to stage a pro-President Buhari rally in Awka on Friday.” Questioning the rationale for such a rally in Igboland, the statement said: “MASSOB warns that such rally will not hold anywhere in Biafra land’’. “Is this the reason why some Igbo politicians are driving their way into APC that has no interest of Igbo. We will never allow you to bring reproach and political disgrace to Igbo land. “What is the significance of the APC rally in Igbo land? Does Igbo have any love or likeness for Buhari and APC? Why must such rally be planned to be held in Ojukwu’s home state? “Is the rally more important than the Federal Government abandoned Second Niger Bridge, Enugu-Onitsha Expressway, Enugu- Port Harcourt Expressway, Onitsha-Okigwe Federal road etc?” The statement said the planned rally was a plot to deploy Boko Haram terrorists to Igboland.    The leader of the group, also condemned the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo led by Chief Nnia Nwodo for his tour across the country without paying  solidarity visit to the leader of Indigenious People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu and others in Kuje Prison, Abuja. He acknowledged that in a couple of times, Chief Nwodo had been politically positive on his comments on Biafra actualisation but has not visited his brother, Kanu in prison or even other detainees in other prisons across the country. Madu, in a statement yesterday said Ohanaeze president general was so busy travelling round Nigeria with a handshake of fellowship for a better understanding and cohesion among Nigerian ethnic groups. He advised him to stop this unprofitable adventure because Igbo can no longer adjust to Nigeria’s continuity. “That other ethnic nationalities and anti-Igbo leaders are afraid of Nigeria’s future, is not because of Ohanaeze Ndigbo or Igbo politicians, traditional or religious leaders but because of Biafra agitators and their leading figures. Meanwhile, six suspected cultists including a woman said to be members of Akparikpa fraternity were yesterday arrested by MASSOB, at Nkpikpa Okpoko, Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State. The activities of the cultists came to limelight when they stormed Nkpikpa with two tricycles, armed  to kidnap a yet-to-be identified man resident in the area. It was gathered that on tip-off by the residents,   MASSOB Director on Security, Ekwusigo region, Akachukwu Nwachukwu, stormed the area to pick a man and subesequently arrested the cultists after a bloody clash. The MASSOB group, otherwise known as Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), led by Chief Ralph Uwazuruike said their modest effort at arresting the suspected hoodlums was in line with Governor Willie Obiano’s efforts to rid the state of undesirable elements. Items recovered from them included a locally made double-barrel pistol, five live cartridges, two tricycles and charms. It was alleged that the suspects were terrorising the area and its environs. One of the suspects, while pleading for forgiveness, confessed that they were members of the said cult group. They were later handed over to Ocha Brigade led by its Managing Director, Kenneth Okonkwo that came to the scene for onward handover to the police. Reacting, the Anambra North leader of MASSOB, Emma Omenka and Ekwusigo region director, Okwareke said they would not spare any criminal when caught. Contacted, police spokesperson in the state, Mrs Nkeiruka Nwode, confirmed the incident but put the figure of the suspects at five. She attributed the success to the police intelligence unit which she said were working with Ocha Brigade. “Our intelligence unit working with Ocha Brigade arrested the suspects. One locally made pistol, and 5 live cartridges were recovered from them. They’ve been handed over to SARS and would be charged to court soon,” she said.