Pledge loyalty to Buhari From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Acting President Yemi Osinbajo was, yesterday, briefed by the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali and security chiefs on the various security challenges facing the country, especially the activities of terrorists in the North-East. This was even as the service chiefs pledged their total loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari, who is on vacation in London, United Kingdom. Those present at the session held inside the Presidential Villa, Abuja, were the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd); the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Abubakar Sadiq, Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibas Ibok; the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Lawal Daura and the Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris. At the opening of the special session, before it went into closed door, Dan-Ali commended the current administration for its funding of the armed forces in the conduct of its operations. “Let me start by expressing our appreciation to the current administration for its relentless support to the armed forces in the conduct of its operations. On behalf of the armed forces and other security agencies, we pledge our total commitment and loyalty to the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria,” the defence minister said. He told Osinbajo that the ongoing operation in the North-East has recorded tremendous success which has led to restoration of normalcy in most parts of the affected areas. “Several high profile Boko Haram commanders were arrested and over 20,000 persons mostly women and children held hostage by the terrorists were rescued. The defense minister also briefed Osinbajo on the crisis in Southern Kaduna and said peace talk was ongoing to address the current clashes between herdsmen and farmers in the communities. “As part of efforts to curtail this menace, Nigerian Army is in the process of constructing a permanent barracks in Kafanchan. “Efforts to put an end to cattle rustling and armed banditry in communities in Zamfara and Katsina State have successfully resulted in the handover of various weapons to troops in the states. Meanwhile, acting President Osinbajo said he would brief President Muhammadu Buhari on what transpired at yesterday’s meeting during a telephone conversation with the president later. Osinbajo, who was answering questions from State House correspondents after the over two hours meeting, said the briefing was a demonstration of the administration’s commitment to end the various security challenges facing the country. When asked if the meeting with security chiefs was not an indication that President Muhammadu Buhari may not return anytime soon, he replied; “No, no, no! Almost every month, these briefings are held; it is routine put in place by the president. “It is even more important that we do so because of some of the issues arising, like cases of kidnappings. Besides, the president is a process person and, certainly, I am going to speak with him on developments here. So, it is not an indication of anything.” The acting president reiterated the present administration’s commitment  to the security of the nation.  “The primary duty of government is to ensure lives and properties and that is why we have to be regularly briefed.” Asked to put a time frame to when Boko Haram attacks will end based on the briefings received, Osinbajo said, “As you know, the Boko Haram as a military force, has been degraded, they are not holding territory at the moment. What is happening now is just once in a while attacks by suicide bombers. “By the nature of asymmetric warfare, we are not able to say it has ended now, but, I think militarily, they have been contained, there is no question, at all, that Boko Haram, as a fighting force, has been degraded.”