From: Gabriel Dike The Vice Chancellor of Christopher University (UNICHRIS), Mowe, Ogun State, Prof. Friday Ndubuisi, has appealed to the Federal Government to extend the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) and research grants to private universities to assist them provide additional facilities and carry out studies that would help in solving national issues. Prof. Ndubuisi, who spoke against the backdrop of the forthcoming maiden matriculation ceremony of UNICHRIS scheduled for Thursday, March 30, said the Federal Government should be interested in what goes on in the various private universities because they contribute their quota to national development through research and production of graduates. The vice chancellor disclosed that the TETFUND money was contributed by private firms as stipulated by the law and wondered why private universities owned by the same business men and women that fund TETFUND are not considered when the money is shared to public institutions. His words:’’ TETFUND money is from private businesses. I see no reason why the government should not extend it to private universities. The private universities need the support of government in providing research grants. Abroad, government give both private and public institutions research grant because it will be used to solve national issues. The pioneer UNICHRIS VC stressed that TETFUND money should be made available to Nigerian universities rather than the current practice of allocating the fund to public tertiary institutions alone. According to him, UNICHRIS took off last year with three schools and have eleven foundations departments accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC) and have also engaged some best hands in the academic fields as pioneer lecturers. Prof. Ndubisi said the current UNICHRIS admission quota approved by NUC is 550 and hoped it would increase with the introduction of eight new courses after the visit of resources persons from the commission this year. On the forthcoming matriculation ceremony, the VC said the pioneer and subsequent students would receive quality, standard, sound and functional education to ensure ‘’our graduates will stand up to challenges and competitions wherever they find themselves in the future.’’ He disclosed that the maiden matriculation, official opening ceremony of UNICHRIS and the public lecture would attract Governor Ibikunle Amosun, representatives of Minister of Education, NUC and the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB). The VC stated that the public lecture titled: ‘’Bridging the gap: the university, the student and the workplace would be delivered by the Pro-chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of Federal University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia state, Prof Anya O. Anya. Ndubuisi debunked the insinuation that UNICHRIS is a faith-based institution stating, ‘’it was established by an industrialist, Chief Christopher Eze, who is passionate about providing quality education to youths through affordable tuition fees” noting ‘’our fees is about the lowest around the South West.’’  