By Charles Nwaoguji The Organised Private Sector (OPS) has called for the removal of seeming barriers that have hindered entrepreneurship growth in the country.
It noted that current business environment has not supported growth of the real sector but admitted that government has made some noticeable efforts toward addressing them.
Operators in the sector who spoke to Daily Sun recently, commended the giant strides of the Federal Government towards the improvement of the business environment.
The President of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Chief Bassey Edem, said improvements in the business environment will impact positively on the productivity, prosperity and progress of the Nigerian private sector.
Edem noted that the creation of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), chaired by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, with the Minister of Trade and Investment, Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, as Vice Chairman would go a long way to ease the stress of doing business in the country. The profile of this council, he said, as reflected in its composition, underscores the importance the government attaches to business environment issues and by extension private sector development.
According to him, the PEBEC initiative will remove the numerous obstacles and barriers, which have been a source of frustration to entrepreneurs. “We commend the 60-day national action plan for ease of doing business as articulated by government,” Edem said.
Speaking in the same vein, the President of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mrs. Nike Akande, said this would reposition the private sector to play a more important role in the economic recovery process.
She noted that the specifics of this action plan include reduction in the time required for business registration at the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) with the upgrade of its online portal, reduction in the period it takes for product registration by relevant regulatory agencies of government and transparency and inclusiveness in the procurement processes.