From Uche Usim and Nsisong Morgan, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday called on the National Assembly, especially the Senate to see that the pending Audit Bill is quickly passed into law, as it will enhance transparency and accountability across all ministries, departments and agencies the (MDAs). He made the call in Abuja during the launch of the 2017- 2022 Strategic Development Plan organised by the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation (OAuGF). President Buhari, who was represented at the event by the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, also harped on the need for the OAuGF to be totally independent to enhance its effectiveness. President Buhari further noted that the Audit Bill was key to national development as it promotes fiscal discipline and transparency, as well as the instruments to curb menace in all public sectors. On the 2017-2022 Strategic Development Plan, the President said the plan remains an instrument for effective and efficient operations in public offices. “It would equally enhance financial independence of the Audit office and insulate it from external influence and indirect control”, he noted. President Buhari assured that his administration remained committed to building a future for Nigerians, vowing that he would not relent in the fight against corruption. He equally said that the Federal Government was working hard to build strong institutions across the country to enhance economic growth. He advised the Auditor-General of the Federation, Anthony Anyine to expose his staff to sound training and capacity building programmes for proper management of the Audit Office. In his remarks, Mr.  Ayine hailed the House of Representatives that passed the Audit Bill, hoping that the Senate will quickly tow the same path. He said the absence of a legal back up has robbed the Audit Office has the bite and force needed in ensuring good service delivery and prudent management of the nation’s resources. He also noted that the major impediments to the nation’s progress were poor governance, waste, inefficiency, poor accountability and lack of transparency. On the 2017- 2022 SDP, Ayine stated that more support to plan would lead to significant development and better accountability in the polity. In his remark, the Chairman Senate Committee on Public Accounts Committee, Senator Emmanuel Uba  assured that the as soon as the upper chamber resumes seating, the will be passed. Uba who was represented by the public account committee member, Yahaya Abdulahi, stressed that the committee would partner with the Office of Auditor General of the Federation to realize the goals and objectives of the bill.