From Godwin Tsa, Abuja The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, has declared war on corrupt judicial officers, stressing his readiness to wield the big stick against them. The CJN said he is committed to ensuring that the judiciary is efficient, effective and just. Justice Onnoghen spoke yesterday at the opening ceremony of the 2017 national workshop for Secretaries, Registrars, Court Clerks, Protocol Officers, Bailiffs and Process Servers, held at the National Judicial Institute (NJI) in Abuja. While describing the workshop as “very significant,” the CJN said it was aimed at empowering court employees to deliver diligent services to court users and the general public. “It is important to mention that this category of support staff in the judiciary is indispensable in the administration of justice,” the CJN noted.   He said their attitude and conduct towards court users must be that of responsibility and accountability in order to boost public confidence in the judiciary. He said: “The theme of this year’s workshop, ‘Enhancing the operational capacity of judiciary staff’, is appropriate and necessary because the target audience at this workshop are the first point of contact with members of the public. “As officers in-charge of day-to-day running of the courts, it is imperative you display high ethical standards of behaviour and be guided by the Code of Conduct for Court Employees. “Let me state that the judiciary is keen on setting clear standards and establishing a result-oriented institution for effective administration of justice. You must play your part in actualisation of this goal. You must have the fear of God in all you do, and not allow any aspect of your personal interest to conflict with your official duties.  “It is imperative for you to shun corruption and its tendencies. Corruption has no place in the judiciary; the big stick shall spare no one, thus, commitment to duty and honesty should be your watch word.” Earlier in her welcome address, the administrator of the NJI, Justice R. P. I. Bozimo, urged the participants to use the workshop as an opportunity to enrich their knowledge, boost their intellectual capacity and get accustomed to the best global practices for optimum performance. The NJI boss also enjoined the participants to be proactive in the discharge of their duties, saying they should curtail delay in the dispensation of justice. Justice Bozimo maintained that the theme of the workshop was a testament that the judiciary is focused, more than ever, on ensuring it functions optimally by improving the competence of its staff in all cadres.