By Christian Agadibe One can never get enough of Uche Elendu. The role interpreter has always fascinated her fans. Though, marriage seemed to have slowed her down, the mother of two is now back and ready to release her latest movie, The Altar. In this interview, Elendu opens up on her career, challenges and motherhood. What production are you currently working on? I’m currently working on the promotion of my soon-to-be-released blockbuster movie, The Altar. How did you get into acting? Venturing into the movie industry wasn’t by chance. I had a passion and a strong desire to use my talent to create a lasting impact in the life of the people. So, it was easy to delve into the industry, because aside the fact that I could identify with the gift I possess, it is also a career that has great influence on people. And I intend to influence the lives of people positively.  What are your challenges? I won’t really say it’s a challenge. But having to balance the home as a mom and also create time for movies is a big challenge in itself. But I thank God that He has been sufficient enough. What are your experiences? Out of the several experiences, one I’ll like to point out was the day I had a ghastly accident while driving to location. It was an experience that would live with me forever. Despite all the odds, God came to my rescue and kept me alive. This, indeed, is my biggest experience concerning the movie industry. What are your aspirations as far as this career is concerned? I’ll like to reach the highest of heights. I’ll love to break into Hollywood and make movies that would keep the world at attention. Did you do any extra thing to get to where you are now? It’s work, work and more work to develop my ability. I also had to be closer to God to draw strength from Him. Did you ever fail at any time? There’s no perfect man. But one thing is certain; whenever I fall I always pick myself up and then try again and again till I get it right. Were you ever afraid of failure? There was the initial scare due to the highly competitive nature of the movie industry. But I believed in my ability and in God, and this gave me strength to pull through. Tell us about your growing up, were you born with silver spoon? Growing up, I’ll like to say God was faithful. I was born in a very comfortable home and the Lord provided for all our needs before we even asked. I come from a family of six, my dad is a retired civil servant, he worked with the Nigerian Ports Authority while my mum is a retired headmistress with Loral International Schools, FESTAC, and I have three younger brothers. While growing up, my parents were in active service and made sure we lacked nothing, though my father was a strict disciplinarian and he spared no rod in making sure we grew up the right way. I was bored most of the time with no sister to play with and a dad that won’t allow me go out to play with other kids except with permission. He made sure we had the best of education, and in everything, we give God the glory. How were you able to balance your career and the home front? That in itself is a great challenge because those two are very important aspects of my life: family and career. But I make sure that I attend to both accordingly, and I have a great management that helps handle my career and work while I work on my home front. Has your career ever come between you and your marriage? No, it hasn’t. I got married at the peak of my acting career and though, it slowed me down, it was not a choice neither was my husband behind it. I just felt it was my obligation to concentrate on fulfilling the purpose of marriage. God has been the center of all my activities, so He has been able to balance things for me. What do you think could be the reason why career women don’t keep their marriages? Honestly, I don’t belong to that school of thought, because career women are human just like everyone, and there are a lot of distractions associated with career. But with focus and the grace of God, women are able to balance both important aspects of their lives. What determines your fashion sense? Comfort. You would never find me following the trend for trend sake. If I choose to put on a dress, it has to be comfortable for me and suit my body and not just because it’s in vogue. I like to stand out and be different. So, this, alongside comfortability drives my sense of fashion. How do you relax? I’m more of an indoor person. Being indoor and spending time with my family is the perfect way to relax for me.