President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed gratitude to God, for improved rainy season for two consecutive years in Nigeria, resulting in good harvest. The president opened up that he had considered going on exile if it were the other way round. Buhari said this when he received the National Council of Traditional Rulers, led by the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, yesterday. Also, at the same forum, the president expressed gratitude to God for improved rainy season for two conservative years, resulting in good harvest, confessing that he would have gone on exile if it was the other way round. The President stated that if this year’s harvest was not good he was considering which country to run to. “We know our limitations we have to continue to strengthen our constitution, to strengthen the resolve of our people to live together, work together. “We are lucky that last year and this year the rainy season is good. If it were not good I must confide in you that I was considering which country to run to. “But , God answered the prayers of many Nigerians. The rainy season last year was good and, this year, with the report I am getting, is good. We thank God for that otherwise, there would have been a lot of problems in this country.” The president noted that the mismanagement of national resources over years  was responsible for the current economic woes currently bedeviling the country. On the general security situation in the country, the President said all hands are on deck to completely secure Nigeria so as to develop it further. Earlier, Sultan of Sokoto, while thanking God for bringing the president back in sound health, urged him to tightened his belt and take on the mantle of leadership. Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi,  joined his colleagues in thanking God for the same return of Buhari and for restoring his health. Speaking for the South  East, Chairman of South East Traditional Council, Eberechi Dike,  said “our hearts are full of joy that you are back. You shook our hands when you came in and that shows you believe in one Nigeria. We prayed for you and you are back. We prayed for you because your agenda for Nigeria is good. “As your children, when we cry, it is for you to ask us to stop crying that you will fix whatever is making us cry, like the bad roads.” Speaking for the North West,   Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, said the traditional rulers identify with Buhari’s commitment for national security. Speaking for the South South, King of Nembe Kingdom, Dr. Edmond Daukoru expressed the region’s commitment “to your programmes. “We know there is tension here and there but as traditional rulers we don’t eat politics. The economy has to be fixed. Coming from the region that produces the main stay of the economy, even though the country will soon diversify the economy, before we diversify let’s protect the one that we still have. We are pleased to work for peace and stability of the region so that we can all see the benefits of the commodity.” North Central Gbom Gwom Jos, Jacob Buba Gyang, also thanked God for  bringing the president back to celebrate Sallah with Nigerians. “The issues of health and security are not issues to play politics but issues we should put heads together so that the country can progress. “We commend your efforts on security and agriculture.” “Few days ago just when we thought peace had returned to the plateau up, it was truncated with the attack on Ancha village in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State, leading to 20 deaths.” He commended the Buhari for ordering the se