From Agaju Madugba, Katsina Katsina State Governor,  Aminu Bello Masari, has said some unnamed persons whom he described as saboteurs, have infiltrated the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and are making concerted efforts at frustrating Federal Government’s efforts to transform the country. According to Masari, the saboteurs, are “devils,” who specialise in draining the nation’s economy. The governor spoke, yesterday, at a rally organised by various trade associations in the state, in support of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC administration in the state. “These devils are out to pitch the electorate against the Muhammadu Buhari administration,” Masari said. He argued further that, “since the creation of the country, no government, whether military or civilian has done so much for the ordinary Nigerians than Buhari. “The enemies of Buhari are the enemies of the people because all Buhari’s programmes are designed to improve the quality of lives of the people, especially the ordinary Nigerians. “We must all be wary of them; they are greedy persons out to cause confusion because of their selfish interests and because they want to continue to loot and there is no room for that. “So they devised  a means of pitching the electorate against the government. “The struggle now is between those who want development for the people and those who want to enrich themselves against the electorate and the principles of the APC.” Masari said that APC governors across the country are committed to what he described as “the ideals of the party” and that, they cannot be distracted from  delivering on their mandate, “in line with the party’s manifesto.” The governor equally lamented what he called acute poverty level in the North West and attributed the development to illiteracy among the population. “The North West is the most populated zone in the country, with the highest number of children who are out of school. “The poverty is a result of poor education and the only way to get out of poverty is through mass education and that is why education remains the number one priority of this administration,” he said.