i know I should probably stop seeing Rick but believe me it’s more complicated than you know. “We would be having dinner tonight,” Rick said decisively as if I had no say in the matter. I saw red and blurted the first thing that came to my mind, “I have a date tonight!” I said haughtily, infuriated at his audacity and even angrier with myself for caring. “Really, who is the guy?” He asked quietly in amusement; leaning casually against the wall, he stared at me intently. I needed something that will wipe the conceited expression from his face. “Dennis!” I said triumphantly as I saw the smile disappear from his face. Good I thought, he can’t gloat now. Dennis was not in town but I wasn’t going to tell Rick that. He eventually left when he found out he couldn’t bully me into going out with him. I heaved a sigh of relief. Men you guys need to know that sometimes we mean it when we say no, so you all need to stop badgering us. My thoughts wondered to David, a guy I met some time ago. He was so friendly but my mind kept telling me he must be after something and when I say something I mean sex. Sex; it seems to be what most guys want. I mean do they think girls don’t have brains? I hate that! We are not sex objects guys, give us a break! I once had dinner with a client of mine. Silly me, I actually thought he was serious minded and we could do business together. Business? Yeah, but not the type I had in mind. He tried to grope me under the table. I just stood up and emptied my glass of expensive wine on his head. With a satisfied smirk I left the restaurant. Business my foot! What makes a large percentage of men horny when they see a beautiful woman with brains? They say our intelligence attracts them yet they want to reduce us to bimbos. It is so annoying. Are there any decent men out there, who don’t have sex as first, second and third on their agenda? Really I am tired of ‘Sexomaniacs’, I want and need real conversations and please every conversation must not and should not lead to sex. Some men cannot keep a relationship with a woman without sex. Sex, they say is the icing on the cake. I knew if David turned out to be one of such men, I won’t be seeing him again. Yes I liked him but it would have been too humiliating to end up in bed with him after our first date or worse on the very first date (it was a disaster!). Why do some men feel intimidated by beautiful, intelligent women? I say this because they try to play down our intelligence. I have been offered different things not for my intelligence but for my looks; a weekend in Obudu cattle ranch in Calabar, a trip to London, shopping in Paris e.t.c. It is so annoying that a fellow human will look at another human as a piece of art work or expensive property he can acquire. Yeah, they know we have brains but feel we don’t need to use it. Hello…I am literate, how else did I graduate from school? I didn’t sleep my way through school even though I know some girls do that. Guys give us a break! We don’t all scr*w around; believe me when you meet such girls you would not need to have a P.H.D to know it, how? You just will! I think it is a shallow man that thinks SEX when he sees an attractive female. Men! Ok not all are full of sh*t! Am I a man hater?  I wonder, hope not. It must be their testosterone acting up! Rick had left but I knew it was for the moment. I wonder what happened to his Babymama; I know I promised to tell you about Sotonye but you will have to wait till next week. Ciao