From: Noah Ebije, Kaduna Akwa Ibom State indigenes resident in Kaduna have kicked against division of Nigeria as they joined their kinsmen back home to celebrate 30th anniversary of the State creation. In his address on the occasion, President, Akwa Ibom State community, Kaduna, Mr. Chris P. Etang, appealed to those agitating for separation to drop the fight and embrace and one indivisible country. Mr. Etang expressed happiness to the founding fathers of the state for their vision, unity and love and sacrifice that ensured the State creation. He said as a community in Kaduna, the people are have every reason to be proud and happy as beneficiaries of the struggle and sacrifice that gave them the State, three decades ago. He urged the State Governor, Emmanuel Udom to keep the flag of the founding fathers flying for continuous development of the state. He said, “We are appealing to everyone and all sections of the country to embrace peace and mutual coexistence as we believe in the indivisibility of Nigeria. “As an entity, we stand to gain more as one umited county than breaking apart into smaller groups. “We are also appealing to government at all levels, local, State and federal to truly exhibit democratic principles and be fair in decisions and in all matters relating to governance to all the component sections of the country. “I will not fail to recognise and thank our founding fathers for the vision, unity, love, courage and sacrifice they exhibited in their struggle for the State creation which has given us Akwa Ibom that we are celebrating today. “I therefore urge those who may still nurse any sentiment of ethnicity, character of divisiveness and tendency of separation, and to remind them that what separates us are nothing compared with what binds us together”. The community leader thanked Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-rufai, “For the atmosphere of peace, love and cooperation that prevails which has made our stay a home away from home, while we go about our normal day to day activities”.