From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha and the All Progressives Grand Alliance( APGA), in the state have disagreed sharply on alleged deaths at the Ekeukwu Owerri market in Owerri, the state capital. Okorocha insisted nobody died during the demolition last Saturday, and accused political elites in the state of spreading rumour to enhance their political chances in 2019. But, the state chapter of APGA has, however, accused the governor of blatant disregard of the law and violating his oath of office. The party demanded Okorocha’s impeachment. The governor, who spoke after the State Security Council meeting, which was attended by all heads of security agencies in the state, asked anyone with proof of any death during the demolition to come forward with it. “The council reaffirmed that nobody was killed in Ekeukwu as a result of the demolition and those who are claiming that people were killed, parading rumours that are not true should stop doing that” he said. He said relocation of the market will restore sanity to Douglas Road and added that “there is no day that passes without two or three robbery taking place in Ekeukwu. “We are not finished with the exercise, it is a continuous one. New Market will also be relocated. They have been given time to relocate. We must get Imo better, I am on rescue mission to get Imo better; Imo must be better”. He said the state’s laws prohibit location of markets within five kilometres of Government House, and added  that other markets within the city will also be relocated. But, APGA Chairman in the state,  Peter  Ezeobi,  said Okorocha had turned himself into an Emperor who is not bound by any law. Ezeobi added that the governor has become a threat to democracy “by using instruments of coercive power to kill and maim citizens of the state, in the name of relocating a market. “It is worrisome to have to put people in such kind of situation, to kill citizens in the name of relocation is sad. As a welfarist party, we can only look up to God to save us while we urge the House of Assembly to, immediately, commence impeachment proceedings against the governor over his failure to uphold the constitution which he had sworn to protect. He is now a dictator and emperor and has, therefore, become a threat to democracy.”