The United States Consulate General Lagos, in collaboration with Field of Skills and Dreams VTE Academy, at the weekend organized a follow-up business and entrepreneurship mentoring program for 65 emerging Nigerian entrepreneurs. Building on the introductory two-day intensive conference for emerging entrepreneurs held in March, the program was aimed at helping the participants evaluate their achievements till date while also gaining insights into the challenges hindering their business growth potential. Leading business leaders, business financing institutions, entrepreneurship faculty and trainers, including the Academic Director, Owner-Manager Program at the Lagos Business School, Dr. Henrietta Onwuegbuzie, and CEO Field of Skills and Dreams VTE Academy, Mrs. Omowale Ogunrinde, provided the participants with practical guidance on how to transform their businesses and drive profitability. United States Consul General F. John Bray renewed the U.S. government’s commitment to enhancing the skills and capacity of budding Nigerian entrepreneurs. “I made a commitment to you in March on behalf of the U.S. government that we would do our best to support you on your journey to establish a successful business. “I am pleased to learn that some of you have achieved a certain level of success since March.  I am equally pleased that all of you here today, like the more established Nigerian entrepreneurs, are dynamic, forward looking, and committed to the economic success of Nigeria,” Consul General Bray said while welcoming the participants. Public Affairs Officer, United States Consulate General Lagos, Ms. Darcy Zotter, stated that the follow-up training became expedient in order to equip the entrepreneurs with enhanced set of skills and networks to help them as they strive to achieve business success. “I am pleased to see that many of the emerging entrepreneurs we trained in March have returned. We know that entrepreneurs can be made and aren’t necessarily born.  Entrepreneurial skills can be taught.  The process of learning and honing their entrepreneurial skills is on-going. We hope that when they finish today they will have a stronger network of supportive friends and mentors,” Public Affairs Officer Darcy Zotter said. 