“My three female children were caused by my mother. They have gone through pain in life… They have all reached the age of marriage yet no single suitor for any of them was available. This gave us serious concern and we have prayed and prayed but no answer was fast coming. Several deliverances conducted without any result. We managed to contact you early this year and got the oil for three of them and they applied same as you instructed. Today, I am pleased to inform you that two of them are happily married and the one remaining will soon join her husband in London as expected. We are indeed happy… Mr.& Mrs. Mike G. Email mkg7889@gmail.com “God has done it for me. May God bless the Sun newspaper that gave you this platform to free many of us. I was lost and lived in fear for many years; my own house and some lands were forcefully taken away from me. As the only son, I was afraid of being killed so I ran away from the village completely. Upon that they have been chasing me spiritually. Any business I put my money into failed and I was in debt. Nobody loved me; even my wife hated me for no cause. As a result, committing suicide was my last hope until I contacted you and explained my problems to you. Sir, you gave me hope and encouraged me to get two bottles of you oil; it took me some months to do so. When I did, I noticed changes around me but not to my satisfaction. When you asked me to repeat the prayer, I did as you instructed, God manifested in his power and restored love in our marriage. The people holding my properties started experiencing certain things to the extent that the last one that died confessed and asked his children to return everything to me. They have also done that. Their charms failed them and my God saved me. I’m so happy with what I am seeing in my business now; God is indeed good. Anonymous. The above biblical assertion bears evidence to the fact that one should not take biblical statements literally. The way and manner Jesus responded to so many questioned in the Bible shows that the psychology of his original heavenly plane is in great variance with ours. The way he related with both his Apostles and Disciples in no small way authenticates the fact that he came from a plane that is of divine origin. He demonstrated advanced discipline, taught unassuming theology, separated himself when necessary, refused to disclose certain things to humanity, lived by example, and above all coded his mission and teachings. He is a great Master! The Bible once more reports, “I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known and our fathers have told us” Ps. 78:21. The two key words here are PARABLE and DARK. Both words were used symbolically. Here the Bible is telling us that we must begin to understand not with the brain per say but with the mind of the spirit. Dark sayings of old are simply words that have hidden meanings.  No doubt that hidden texts written thousands of years ago must be revealed through revelation of the wise. Here we are talking of “dark sayings of old”. The Bible in Proverbs 1:6 says, “To understand a proverb and the interpretation, the words of the wise and their dark sayings.” This simply shows that there are dark sayings of old and in order to understand them, the assistance of the wise is needed. In this context therefore, wisdom is needed and wisdom in this context is in understanding symbolic writings. The dark sayings are those sayings that have hidden meanings. Such hidden meanings have great impact on those that understand them. The Bible says, “The most high dwells not in temples made with hands” Acts 7:48. Here the spiritual language and its hidden meaning is that God does not dwell in our conceptual holy temples and material structures. Yet he dwells there in a symbolic manner, consequent upon the fact that his name is attached to it. In line with spiritual principles, God is absolute and anything that is attached to him, assumed his nature. This simply means that God is associated with anything that is associated with him in truth and in spirit. Mundane religious leaders are not ignorant of this yet for thousands of years; people have been slaughtered over the location of temples which are made with hands in the defense of their faith. “The kingdom of God is within you” asserted Christ (Luke 17:21). In I Corinthians 3:16 the bible affirms that “You are the temple of God. For the temple of God is Holy which temple you are.” This is another confirmation of the assertion that what is considered the temple or tabernacle is actually the human mind. The bible contains the hidden keys if properly applied would lead to open the vast ocean of the mind. I must at this point confess that the veil that blocks the understanding of some religious people is symbolic writings in the scriptures. I have discovered that the issue of circumcision has ultimately nothing to do with male organ as we shall soon discover just as water baptism has nothing to do with one of the major cosmic elements WATER. Yes, it has nothing to do with literal water; it is very symbolic in its proper and ultimate spiritual implications. The bible observes, “But even unto this day when Moses is read, the veil is upon their heart. Nevertheless when they shall turn to the lord the vail shall be taken away” 11 Corinth. 3:15. Here, the Bible is saying that when the people read the Old Testament, they did not understand it consequent upon the fact that they read it literally and forgot its true symbolic meanings. Turning to the Lord becomes the secret on how the Holy Bible could be understood because ones deeper understanding would be widened. The ‘psych-chrome’ would have been opened to inner understanding of higher realities. Turning to the Lord in this context means that one must meditate in line with spiritual principles bereft of occult implication. By meditation, one turns away from intellect to the spirit dimension. Symbolism simply means what you see is not what it is. Christ symbolically subscribed to this when he inferred that they ‘look and look but do not see.’ The reason why they do not see is because they look with the literal eyes-the eyes of the intellect. For you to see, you must look with the inner (symbolic) eyes. The above implies why Apostle Paul prayed thus, “That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory may give unto you the spirit of wisdom…The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is the hope of his calling…” Eph. 1:17-18. This is too symbolic. I am aware of the common but uncommon fact that too many blind eyes are interpreting the Bible; this however, is the genesis of our failure in many aspects of divine knowledge. Deep studies of the spiritual mind shows that the Bible is a revealed book coded in symbolism but centered on the secrets of the human mind. Some of the people, who survive materially by interpreting the bible in their various congregations, may be making serious mistakes hence they have millions of followers. No wonder Anthony de Mello once inferred, “If a million people follow you, as yourself where you have gone wrong.” Today, everything is wrong with the multitude of followership we have in our various Churches. Truth is upturned, ignorance has replaced knowledge, intellect has taken the place of spirit, and the mouth now speaks what divine spirit is ‘ignorant’ of. Speaking in tongues has replaced the fruits of the Holy Spirit; money has become the new master that without it, you cannot be recognized as a true church member. The church has almost become a social club; I just wonder where we are heading to from here. False prophets everywhere, their interest is to enrich their pockets and tell you all the lies in their mouths provided it favours them financially. 