The leadership of the Navy Sailing Club, NSC Ojo, Lagos has said its priority for the 2017/18 calender is to help put better infrastructures in place for athletes as they work towards a better representation of the club and the country at large. Club Commodore of the Navy Sailing Club, Captain Femi Daramola (Rtd) while speaking at the Annual General Meeting of the Club held at the Rockview Hotel, Festac Town following his re-election stated that he is looking forward to building a befitting jetty for the club as well as further the opportunities of athletes for a better performance. “The first term in office for me has been a learning process and what the executive at that time intended to achieve did not get to the benchmark we had set for ourselves. I would say we only got about 50% due to various factors that affected the administration. “However, the new executive is one that gladdens my heart because they are men of like minds who are eager give their best for the growth of the club. Together, I can assure you that we would put in our best to make the Navy Sailing Club as vibrant as it should be. There Club deserves a good jetty that will stand it out and of course make the training facilities available for our athletes as well as those in the national federations.” Patron of the Club and President of the Nigeria Rowing, Canoe and Sailing Federation, Rear Admiral Festus Porbeni (Rtd) charged the Club Commodore to work towards establishing the outposts in Warri, Port-Harcourt, Nike Lake and other Naval facilities to help the growth of water sports in Nigeria. “This is the first time I am attending the Club AGM and I am glad that the new executive are men of vigour and willing to work. The Navy Sailing Club should not just be only in Lagos but at other Naval facilities around the country. Water sport is fast growing and I believe that with the help of the NSC in collaboration with the national federation, we could get more athletes involved to better Nigeria’s chances of winning medals at international events. My race will return to the Club in a bigger fashion.” On his part, Flag Officer Commanding, Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Abba commended the leadership of the club and promised to sponsor a race as part of his contribution towards the discovery and development of athletes. Also elected at the AGM were Lcdr Daniel Wilson Essien (Vice Commodore); Bar. Agha Emmanuel Ossia (Rear Commodore); MWO Hilary Egwue (Financial Secretary); Edema Anderson Efe (Treasurer) Joseph Apu of the Sun Publishing (Social secretary); Ashom Luka (Membership Secretary); Emmanuel Izilien(Sailing Secretary) and Ikechukwu Anigbo (Provost). The duo of Bar. Kassarachi Opara and Charles Nwanguma were appointed Secretary General and Works Secretary respectively.