Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has said he refused to be threatened or blackmailed by anybody over the recent adoption of his deputy, Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka, by stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the preferred candidate in the 2018 governorship election in the state. He also said he has no apology to offer any individual or group over the matter since he has not  breached the rule or law of the party or the country. He spoke in Ado-Ekiti, on Thursday, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Idowu Adelusi. The governor was reacting to a petition allegedly sent to the national leadership of the party by some people over Olusola-Eleka’s adoption. “To start with, as a party member and a citizen of Nigeria, I reserve the rights to support any candidate for any elective post and even vote same in an election. Those who are crying over spilled milk should put their enemies in the position of a governor when they have such opportunity. “I have no apology for my action because I have only exercised my rights and I have not breached any rule or law of the party or that of the country. If the petitioners are the major stakeholders and we are the minority, time will tell. However, we reiterate that anyone who feels disappointed by the action should wait for the party’s primary because it is their rights. ” Above all, since they have written to Senator Ahmed Makarfi, they should equally copy Sheriff. All the complainants got to their current positions by God’s grace and my humble self that God used for them. “If they complain about of imposition and endorsement, let them face the electorate too and adopt their own standard that is different from the one we used. At least, am the man to be succeeded and I am entitled to support who I like. ” Let then know that I am not the type to be threatened. If anybody has anything against me, let them go to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,” he said. Governor Fayose wondered why some people would be having needless headache over a matter that does not preclude them from exercising their own rights.