By Gabriel Dike The management of Western Lotto Ltd yesterday promised to reward winners of its various games with N168 million and two cars. Speaking at the presentation of cheques to winners, Managing Director of Western Lotto Ltd, Mr. Yomi Ogunfowora, said it is committed to rewarding 2,042 customers with prizes of N168 million cash and two new cars. Ogunfowora used the occasion to announce the introduction of two new games on Western Lotto platform, Lotto Race and Kashman. Over 400 winners were presented with N50,000 cheques each. His words: “At Western Lotto, we are committed to rewarding 2,042 customers with prizes totalling N168 million cash plus two brand new Hyundai cars. As you came into our corporate headquarters, I am sure you would have seen the cars out there, awaiting winners. “In line with our brand character, we have decided to ensure that while we did not have enough participants to hold a draw, we must fulfil our promise of rewarding customers. We are thus rewarding all eligible participants with N50,000. Our offer is in addition to the N52 million we had given out in incentives to participants either in support of the proposition of our ambassadors or as call credits.’’ According to him, Western Lotto on August 28, presented a cheque of N500,000 to Qadim Soyombo, a Computer Science undergraduate of Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State. He played with N100. “Lotto Race is a fast-paced, high-action game of lotto.  It is an online game of bets involving some players with guaranteed wins in each match. There are instant results in these fast games, with immediate rewards.” Lotto Race allows you to compete against other players from all parts of the globe online and thus creates an online community of friends, players and winners. It offers games that start as soon as there are enough players and commence at fixed times. Whoever matches all the numbers on a line first win; then a new line forms for the next game, and it goes on and on.” About Kashman, the Western Lotto MD added, “Kashman is a slot game with six variations and correspondingly large winning chances. Three of the games offer daily draws, six days in a week. There are My Kashman Daily N100, My Kashman Daily N75 and My Kashman Daily N50. Participants play with N100, N75 or N50. Winnings range from N75 to as high as N10 million, depending on the number of correct matches the player makes.” Three of the Kashman games offer greater rewards of N15 million for Kashman Mega, N150; My Kashman Super, N75 provides a jackpot of N30 million while My Kashman Sunday Ultra, N200, has a top prize of N20 million. Western Lotto also rewarded participants who qualified to participate in its Mega Upgrade Promo (MUP) with N50,000 each.  It also extended the promo to allow room for more participants. The brand ambassadors comprising musicians, comedians and Nollywood actors presented cheques to winners at the head office of Western Lotto. They include Ayo Makun, Innocent Idibia, Zack Orji, Paul Obazele, Odunlade Adekola, Funke Akindele, Olamide Adedeji and Alex Ekunbor. 