• Increases prize money to N15m For fans and lovers of popular television game show, Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, it is a new dawn. Coming after months of resting the show due to the withdrawal of sponsorship by telecoms outfit, MTN, there is a silver lining on the horizon, as Airopay, an international payment operator, has thrown its weight behind Who Wants To Be A Millionaire. The partnership, which was unveiled during a press conference held at Ultima Studio in Lagos on Tuesday, saw the producer of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, Ultima Limited and Airopay signing a contractual agreement. Speaking on the partnership, Mr Charles Oyakhilome, CEO, Airopay, said: “Airopay is thrilled to partner with Ultima Limited, whose passion and dedication to quality and world class productions are well known, by sponsoring the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire Nigeria game show. Airopay is honoured by this partnership. “Airopay and Ultima are convinced that the synergy between Airopay and Who Wants To Be A Millionaire game show will be mutually beneficial.” Airopay’s coming on board has made the game show bigger and richer, as the highest prize money, which was hitherto N10 million, has been increased to N15 million. “With this new sponsorship, Airopay is proud to say that the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire game show is much bigger, richer and better, as Airopay has increased the winnings sums of contestant who makes it to the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire game show’s hot seat and participants who engage in the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire home play,” Oyakhilome said. On his part, Mr Femi Ayeni, CEO, Ultima Limited, said he is delighted to have Airopay on board as partners. “Airopay has come to add value to Who Wants To Be A Millionaire. I can assure you that fans of the show are in for a good time,” he declared. The Airopay’s Who Wants To Be A Millionaire will start airing on Sunday September 3, 2017. For those who want to be part of the game show, the Airopay App can be downloaded on Google Play Store and is also available at the Apple App Store.