By Bimbola Oyesola and Isaac Anumihe There appeared to be a code of silence at the maritime sector, yesterday, as officials of the Nigeria Port Authority (NPA) have elected to keep mum over a  $20 million bribe-for-contract allegation. The money was allegedly wired into the accounts of shell companies and fronts of some former officials of the NPA. Three months after the Swiss Government alerted the Federal Government, that some former top officials of the NPA connived with a Cyprian firm to defraud Nigeria of over $20 million, through bribe-for-contract, no action has been taken on the matter. Yesterday, key players in the NPA and labour unions  feigned ignorance of the scam. The said bribe-for contract was allegedly paid to top officials of the NPA in the execution of dredging works in Bonny Island in Rivers State. The contract involved a firm, Dredging International Services (Cyprus) Limited, which formed a company known as The Bonny Channel Management Company, since 2005, with the NPA. The affected company was fined one million Swiss Francs by a Switzerland court, which also ordered it to pay back 36 million Swiss Francs which was described as illegal profits. The scam predates the appointment of current NPA Managing Director, Hajiya Hadiza Bala Usman. The indictment report  on May 1, 2017, from Swiss Federal Prosecutor’s Office alleged about $20 million was paid as bribes to some NPA officials between 2007 and 2011. The firm was awarded a contract worth N714 billion for the federal government, to create  and maintain a safe navigational passage for marine users along the Eastern Ports of Bonny Island, Onne and Okrika in Rivers State. While government holds 60 per cent shares in the firm, the Bonny Channels Management keeps 40 per cent of the equity in the company, which had been executing major jobs for the NPA for the past 12 years. However, three months after the alert by the Swiss government over the scam, investigation indicated that the federal government is yet to take any action. The NPA and workers who were supposed to take the lead to uncover the scam appeared less enthusiastic about  getting to the root of the bribery scandal. Former President of the NPA workers, Sanni Adeleke in a telephone interview with Daily Sun, yesterday, refused to comment on the scandal. The labour leader, during whose tenure the incident occurred, said he is no longer at the helms of the affairs of the union and so could not speak on the matter. “I’ve finished my term; I am no longer the president of the union, hence, I cannot talk on the issue,” he said. But, when prodded further to give the contact of the new president, Sanni said he would send the number after he had settled down. He did not. Several efforts to get other top union officials, including the President General of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Adewale Adeyanju were unsuccessful as he failed to pick his calls. The NPA has also denied knowledge of the bribe-for-contract scam . When contacted, NPA Public Relations Manager, Mr. Ibrahim Nasiru said he was not aware of the matter and pleaded for time to get acquainted with the issue. “You know that such allegations, you cannot rush them now. I will try to find out tomorrow (today). If there is anything like that, I will let you know. “We need to know whether there is anything like that in the first place. You know there are weird allegations everywhere. We need to verify whether it is true or some people are trying to make news,” he said. President of Senior Staff Association of Communication, Transport and Corporations (SSACTAC) of NPA, Mr. Benson Adegbeyeni told Daily Sun he heard the story the way others heard it, and added that he would conduct investigations and get back to the newspaper. “The Bible says  go to the root of the matter before you voice out. Don’t mind the allegations by the senators about loss of vessels, scandal or no scandal. Were they there? Did they see it? I heard the way you heard it. I am making my investigations. I cannot jump into conclusions. If I am speaking out, it will be authentic. I don’t believe in rumours. You have my number. Call me by this time next week,” he said. Meanwhile, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has commenced investigation into the bribe-for-contract scam. The EFCC, it was gathered, plans to collaborate with the Swiss authorities in getting to the root of “this huge bribery” and that, “no fewer than 20 former NPA top shots may be interrogated over the deal.” On June 14, Hadiza Bala Usman, told Premium Times that apart from being “deeply embarrassing” to the NPA, the indictment was particularly worrisome. “It is a development we are deeply worried about because it relates to the integrity of our agency and process. “We are reviewing the indictment and we will call for a full-scale investigation as it relates to companies and individuals in Nigeria said to have been involved. “This corruption revelation is a helpful development.” We are hopeful of retrieving all relevant documents. “The good thing is that the Swiss government has always shown understanding by cooperating with the Federal Government.” The Swiss government had returned more than $650million Abacha loot to the Federal Government. The source said the latest dimension on the scandal made it necessary for the EFCC to probe the implicated company. “With the leg work done by our team, the $20million was not consultancy fees as being claimed by some of the highly-placed Nigerians. Another source gave an insight into the role played by the administration of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan in cooperating with the Swiss authorities. The source said: “The Swiss authorities, through the Office of The Attorney-General, Department of International Affairs, on May 2, 2012 implicated some Nigerians in the $20million scandal alongside a firm. “The EFCC was then asked to look at the issues involved and the outcome of the agency’s findings was sent to Felix Reinmann, the Swiss Federal Attorney.” The source said a letter by a former Attorney- General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN), revealed the steps taken by the Federal Government. The letter said: “I refer to your letter dated 2nd May 2012, wherein you forwarded a Mutual Legal Assistance request to Nigeria on the above subject matter. The request was brought pursuant to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and the International Law Principle of Reciprocity. “The documents on further findings of the executing competent authority, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission revealed that the money was paid as consultancy fee to the various recipients. “The said documents are herein forwarded to you verbatim. “Accept please, the assurances of my highest consideration and esteemed regards.” A source in NPA said:  “We have referred the case to our Legal Unit for advice on what to do on the firm and the indicted former staff of NPA. “We are being careful in seeking legal advice because the contract the company signed was through the Federal Executive Council (FEC). “We need to look into all contractual documents to avoid running the country into another crisis. This advice will guide us in determining what to do with the company. “As for our former employees, I think about 20, we also need legal advice on whether or not within our own mandate we can take action. “So, we are trying to follow due process. This is without prejudice to the investigation by the appropriate regulatory authority.” There has been pressure on the government to stop any transaction or contractual obligation with the firm. A government source said: “The Presidency has been receiving representation on the need to suspend business or contractual obligation with the firm. “This is left to President Muhammadu Buhari and his team to determine.” The French company VINCI is one of its main shareholders. On June 14, the Managing Director of the agency, Hadiza Bala Usman, told PREMIUMTIMES  that apart from being “deeply embarrassing” to the NPA, the indictment was particularly worrisome. She said: “It is a development we are deeply worried about because it relates to the integrity of our agency and process. “We are reviewing the indictment and we will call for a full-scale investigation as it relates to companies and individuals in Nigeria said to have been involved. “This corruption revelation is a helpful development.”