Eminent businessman and former governor of Abia State, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, has joined Muslim faithful across the country to celebrate the Eid-el-Kabir. He urged Muslims to embrace peace and imbibe the values of Prophet Mohammed. In a signed statement by his Special Assistant, Peter Eze, yesterday, Kalu said muslims have immensely  contributed to the building of the nation, hence, they should avoid anything that would not be progressive for the nation. He also congratulated Nigerians who, despite the economic situations, successfully performed the Hajj this year in fulfillment of a key injunction of their faith. Kalu urged the muslims to continue to pray for peace in the country, noting that the fervent prayers by individuals and peace loving religious groups has accounted for the peace that Nigeria  still enjoys as a nation in recent years. “I want to urge our muslim brothers to always be guided by the attributes and lessons from the life and times of Holy Prophet Mohammed, which symbolised peace, love, tolerance, and good neighbourliness. We must put Nigeria first in all our considerations and endeavours. “Nigeria will experience quicker progress towards the fulfillment of its great potentials as a nation if it’s citizens foster peace, security and stability, which are essential for development, by abiding by the rule of law and embracing our cultural values.” The former governor emphasised the need to eschew hate speeches capable of inciting “avoidable violence in the country,” and noted that “every country has its own pressing challenges and we should not allow ours to swallow us. “Nigerians should learn how to use constitutional means in airing grievances, rather than engage in acts that can cause ethnic unrest in the country.” Kalu also reiterated support for the unity of the country and added that “the country’s strength lies heavily on its diversity.” He equally called on the federal government to fashion out modalities that would teach Nigerian youths the values and importance of peaceful co-existence. He extended “special thanks to President Muhammadu Buhari for his good works so far.”