From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Oyo State governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has said he is not against the current Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland and former governor of the state, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, from becoming Olubadan of Ibadanland if God permits. He spoke against the backdrop of an objection of Ladoja to the review of Olubadan chieftaincy system, which has seen Ibadan moving from having one king to 34 kings, but the Olubadan of Ibadanland remains the paramount ruler and the remaining 33 obas are subject to him. He disclosed this in an interview with journalists yesterday at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, after he returned from Eid-el al-Adha prayer held at Agodi prayer ground. The prayer was led by the Chief Imam of Ibadanland, Sheik AbdulGaniyy Abubakri Agbotomokekere. Besides, Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso I, for the first time since he ascended the throne of his forefathers shunned prayer ground at Agodi, probably following an advice by a group of Mogajis(family heads) under the aegis of Authentic Mogajis that his safety could not be guaranteed. The Director of Media and Public Affairs to Olubadan, Mr. Adeola Oloko, told Saturday Sun on phone that Oba Adetunji observed his prayers at Akuro Central Mosque, Popoyemoja in the vicinity of his palace, where he was joined by a group of Mogajis for the annual religious rites. In the same vein, media aide to Ladoja, Alhaji Lanre Latinwo, said his principal also observed Eid-el al-Adha prayer at the University of Ibadan Central Mosque, adding that Ladoja has been attending special prayers during major Muslim festivals at the mosque in the past four years. Ladoja had alleged that he’s the target of the review and nobody, including Ajimobi could stop him from becoming the Olubadan if God permits, saying: We will like to make it abundantly clear that thousands of Ajimobi can’t stop Ladoja from becoming the Olubadan if it is the will of God.” Ajimobi, who felicitated with Oba Adetunji, Ladoja and people of the state on this year’s Eid-el-Kabir, said: “I use this opportunity to felicitate with our father, the Olubadan of Ibadanland. He is my father and he will continue to be. He is a good father, only that some politicians are hiding under him to cause rift and misunderstanding between us. God will elongate his reign. “I am sure people will still thank me in the future because I am doing good for Ibadan and the state. I am not interested in becoming the Olubadan and I will not be, it is only the person destined by God that would become Olubadan. It is God who ordains an Olubadan. “I also use this opportunity to greet my elder brother, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, who is saying it is because of him that we reviewed the Olubadan chieftaincy laws so that he would not become the Olubadan. God will let him be an Olubadan, if he is destined to be. “Anybody hindering the progress of his fellow humanbeing, will also not make headway. We are not hindering him but he must not politicise the matter of Ibadan. I want to plead with him not to use his inability to secure victory in elections to influence the issue of Olubadan chieftaincy laws.” The governor also advised Ibadan people of the reform of Olubadan chieftaincy system, saying “We also want to plead with our people to always listen carefully and eschew ignorance on the matter. We are aware that some people will not understand the matter quickly and we will continue to enlighten and educate our people on the subject matter. The Eid-el al-Adha prayer at Agodi was attended by a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Chief Bayo Adelabu; Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland, Alhaji Dawood Akinola; Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Lekan Alli; Baba Musulumi of Ibadanland, Alhaji Lateef Oyelade; a Muslim leader, Chief Lamidi Ajadi; Ekarun Olubadan, Oba Amidu Ajibade; and Osi Balogun, Oba Tajudeen Ajibola. 