First Lady Aisha Buhari, the wife of the President, has given scholarship awards to 60 orphans in primary school in Daura. Buhari, who launched the scholarship scheme in Daura on Monday, said the scholarship would cover the six-year primary school education of the beneficiaries. She said the aim of the scheme was to promote education and increase access to the quest for education especially for the Girl-child in the area. The First Lady, who did not disclose the amount to be spent on the beneficiaries’ admonished parents to take the education of their children seriously, adding that education, is the bedrock of national development. Buhari also distributed food items which included 60 bags of rice, 60 cartons of sachet tomato puree and 60 cartons of customised garri to 75 women and some less privileged people in the area. In his remarks, the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouk, commended the wife of the President for her love and concern for Nigerians. He said the First Lady had been consistent in discharging her responsibilities, “We are very grateful to you for constructing a multi million Naira Child and Maternal Health Centre in Daura”. Hajiya Zakiya Masari, the wife of Katsina State governor, also commended her for the gesture. Masari prayed for the well-being of the nation and President Muhammadu Buhari. Alhaji Lawal Kado, the Acting Chairman of Daura Local Government, also commended the efforts of the First Lady. Kado then thanked God for the well-being of the President. Ambarut Sani, a female politician, lauded the efforts of the First Lady, adding that the food items and award of scholarship would go a long way in providing succour to the beneficiaries. She called on the beneficiaries to ensure judicious use of the donated items, stressing that the scholarship awardees would be monitored to ensure consistency. Aisha Baushe, one of the beneficiaries of the scholarship award, thanked the First Lady for the gesture, describing it as a ”wonderful” booster to her quest for education. Other beneficiaries who went home with food items and undisclosed cash gifts commended Aisha Buhari for her magnanimity and prayed for God’s guidance for the first family. (Source: NAN)  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 