By Steve Agbota As part of its transformation project, Union Bank has unveiled its 14 newly upgraded branches across the country. The upgraded branches which are spread across 7 states of the nation include; Enugu, Oyo, Kaduna, Kogi, Delta, Benue, Lagos and also Abuja. While unveiling the upgraded branches, the bank’s customers, stakeholders and local community leaders expressed satisfaction with its ongoing transformation into a truly simpler and smarter bank. Speaking at the launch of the new branches and the bank’s ongoing transformation programme, the Transformation Director, Joe Mbulu said: “Our priorities at Union Bank are clearly defined. To us, the customer comes first. This is why we embarked on this transformation agenda in the first place. We identified the need to upgrade our branches and to improve our services, all in a bid to ensure our customers are consistently provided with top-notch banking services; whether they choose to walk into any of our branches or they decide to carry out their transactions using any of our digital platforms. “The launch of these 14 upgraded branches across the country is a statement to our customers and stakeholders that we are committed to the transformation plan we put in place. We will continue to provide innovative solutions which ensure our customers are satisfied every time they interact with us,” he said. The bank’s transformation journey,which took off in 2015 has seen a massive upgrade of its structures, facilities and services includes the core banking platform and the recent launch of its new and upgraded digital platforms-the mobile app – UnionMobile – and the USSD code *826#. The app, which comes with exciting and innovative features like ‘Locate-an-Agent and ‘Locate-an-ATM-with-Cash’ is totally customer centric and was developed to provide the users with reliable, secure and convenient banking services on the go.  So far, over 120 branches have been upgraded across the country as part of the Bank’s continued efforts to provide its customers with simpler, smarter banking services.