. As Chipolopolo starts preparation By Joe Apu ZAMBIA’S head coach Wedson Nyirenda is of the belief that a psychological warfare would do the magic for his side ahead of the October 7 Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Nigeri. According to Fazfootball.com, Nyirenda revealed that he was psych- ing up his players in an bid to put them in the right mental frame of mind. The coach who led an all local assemblage through an arduous session at the Nkoloma Stadium said Zambia had now drifted into a zone where local players were  an integral part of Chipolopolo. “This game will be highly psychological; therefore we are working on their mental strength before the match. Every player and everyone on our bench know and believe that this time is our time. God can only show you the fish and it up to you to fish it out,” he said. “Looking at the way we worked against Algeria home and away it tells a lot of stories. The boys now know and believe it can be done. Nigeria is a different team we are not going to be big headed be- cause we beat Algeria we are focused on looking at Nigeria only.” The former Chipolopolo star has appealed to the fans to rally behind the team ahead of the clash in Nigeria. “Let us keep pulling in one direction; we are all Zambians we need to work together. Now we know how it feels when we are working together,” he said. “When we took the game against Algeria to Heroes Stadium we had so many doubting Thomasses, yet we saw the people of Zambia despite having that slight fear that we playing a North African team coming in masses and supported the team.” He added: “It can only come from the extra strength coming from the fans.” Twenty one players reported for duty with four Zesco United players exempted as they play Kitwe United on Wednesday in a Barclays Cup quarter final fixture in Kitwe. Foreign based players are expected to join camp on Sunday signaling the final phase of the preparations. Nigeria leads Group B with 10 points while Zambia trails them on seven points with Cameroun lying third on three points while Algeria are stuck on one point.