Taking a look at the crop of people who are competing the gubernatorial election, I take the position that these are well meaning Ndi-Anambra, who in my view and judgment are all outstandingly up to speed. But at the end of the day, one person must come to light. It now boils down to competence and prominence. Who is best suited to dethrone and evacuate the incumbent, Governor Willie Obiano,  Ndi-Anambra have all agreed has failed woefully? There is no other person than this grass-root politician, whose lionization has spread like a wild fire in the nooks and crannies of Anambra State. His name is, Tony Okechukwu Nwoye, candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Excitingly, Nwoye is a former president of the National Association of Nigerian Students, state party chairman and 2013 gubernatorial candidate, who came second despite the conspiracy against him. At present, he is a federal lawmaker that has been representing his people effectively. His milk of human kindness is boundless and deep. He is a people-oriented leader, who is never wavering in the course he believes in and of serving people. His love for equity and progress of Anambra State has won him the admiration of Ndi-Anambra. If we must get to the Promised Land and remain the pride of Nigeria, then we need this leader, a goal-getter and a torch-bearer with a strong character. Furthermore, an electoral investment in Tony Nwoye will be highly rewarding. As a former NANS president, this political activist fought for the oppressed students, and this aspect of him is what he will use in dismantling every aspect of oppression in our dear state.  Ndi-Anambra need a man who has an understanding of the future, a man who is a philosopher in his thinking. Truly, Nwoye is an essential element in a society that wants to grow. The reason Anambrarians are clamouring for real change is because they have all come to the conclusion that the administration of Governor Obiano, having received over N600 billion in revenues, does not have anything on ground that is commensurate to this receipt. It is only when Ndi-Anambra have a God fearing leader like Tony Okechukwu Nwoye that they will begin to experience state of the art development and true freedom. It is only then, that the abundant natural resources and gift in the state will be harnessed and utilized for good of all. Finally, Nwoye will lift Anambra above the negative propaganda, unproductive politics of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and place her on the platform of progress. He is matching surely and steadily on the sands of time and once again will light the flame of good governance in Anambra if given the opportunity. Anambrarians are rejuvenating and are happy that Daniel (Comrade Tony Okechukwu Nwoye) will soon come to judgment in the developmental history of our beloved state. Anambra State cannot continue to be a flash in the pan, a lone ranger and orphan state; we must join the mainstream politics represented by the APC, to be able to run fast instead of this present crawling. Governor Obiano brought crumbs as dividend of democracy to Ndi-Anambra, but Eze Kwu Eche (the awaiting king), Tony Nwoye will give us the full menu. So come Saturday, November 18, 2017, let us use our votes wisely in saying, ‘Yes’ to this Nsugbe born politician for the good of Anambra. ► Ifechukwu Chiagoziem Oragui, wrote from Anambra, 08063348151  