The first set of Ogun State pilgrims numbering 963 have returned to Nigeria after a successful Hajj exercise in Saudi Arabia. The Executive Secretary, Ogun State Muslim Pilgrims’ Welfare Board, Alhaji AbdulHakeem Kalejaiye, who disclosed this in an interview in Saudi Arabia, said the pilgrims arrived Nigeria early Thursday/Friday. “963 pilgrims have so far been airlifted to Nigeria and by Allah’s grace, the last batch of 70 of our pilgrims will be leaving Saudi Arabia for Nigeria next week,’’ he confirmed. Kalejaiye described the feat as unprecedented going by the return schedule of other states released by National Hajj Commission of Nigeria, saying Allah has really been merciful to the state since the operations began. The Executive Secretary maintained that the State up till now, did not record any death, adding that the remaining 70 pilgrims would be leaving for Nigeria later on Sunday In Shaa Allah, urging all the pilgrims to make judicious use of lessons learnt from the hajj exercise. Meanwhile, the Ogun State government has described the just concluded hajj operation as a great accomplishment and miracle of Allah which the state usually dream of. Alhaji Abidoye Amosun, a member of the state’s Muslim Pilgrims’ Welfare Board stated this in an interview with the Board’s Press Officer, Mr. Ismail Sokunbi in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, said that the staggered fight schedule encountered at the take-off in Nigeria was really worrisome. He, however, expressed optimism and his gratitude to Allah for an uninterrupted return arrangement which had led to save arrival of about 963 pilgrims to Nigeria on Thursday/Friday morning. “All our stay in Mina, Arafat, Musdalifa and Jamrat were indeed encouraging because no casualty recorded, we are all hale and healthy despite the hot weather, though there are some cases of illness but Allah put it under control through the intervention of the medical team,”‎ Abidoye maintained. He pledged that the board members would back to drawing board in order to stem up of some hitches being experienced in this year pilgrimage ‎with the view to making necessary correction. 