In a bid to continually deliver quality after-sales service, Ford’s sole dealer in Nigeria, Coscharis Motors, is offering a 10 percent discount on select genuine Ford parts. The offer, which runs until the end of September, 2017, is viewed in the auto market as a testament to the company’s commitment to safety and maintenance of its customers’ vehicles at various locations across the country. Providing more insight into the campaign, Coscharis Group General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Abiona Babarinde, said it is designed to delight customers by giving them value for money and added benefit. He stated that the economic situation in the country has affected so many things, including vehicle maintenance, stressing that as a key player in the motoring industry in Nigeria, the dealer cannot allow customers to forgo their vehicle safety. Babarinde further said, “This is why we have taken it upon ourselves to give our loyal customers some relief in this challenging period. We want to help our customers with our 10% discount on select parts such as brakes, shocks, batteries and service parts to cushion their expenses at this period at our various after-sales service centres and Quick Lane facilities that are now in many neighbourhoods across the country.” Also commenting on the offer, the National Parts Manager, Coscharis Motors, Cyril Cruz, confirmed the dealer’s readiness to roll out the campaign: “We are fully stocked with all required genuine parts in all our after-sales centres and we anticipate a successful campaign. “We don’t want our customers to settle for substitute non-genuine parts. As has been proven again and again, counterfeit or substandard parts and lubricants may appear cheap in the beginning, but in the long run, what may seem penny wise is pound foolish.” Cruz emphasised that it is critical for Ford owners to ensure that their vehicles have genuine parts, because, as often, substandard parts will appear to be working while they are in fact inflicting more damage on the vehicles. He, therefore, advised that since Ford genuine parts come with manufacturer warranty and would be replaced under warranty, if found to be faulty, the Ford owners should always take their vehicles to approved service centres. The campaign also aims to create awareness around the locations of the various Coscharis facilities that make up a comprehensive footprint in Nigeria, where it has 17 after-sales service centres, as well as Certified Parts Wholesale Dealers (CPWD) partners and Ford-backed Quick Lane Tyre and Auto Centres. All the technicians working at the Ford dealerships are factory-trained and Ford-certified. Only genuine Ford or Motorcraft replacement parts and approved lubricants are used when servicing vehicles at Coscharis Ford Service Centres. Genuine parts and approved lubricants are also available through CPWD outlets. 