By Chidera Akalonu Leicester City manager Craig Shakespare still smarting from the euphoria of the EFL victory over Liverpool earlier in the week will be looking forward to recording another win against the reds as they come calling at the King Power Stadium today. Shakespare is not likely to have James Vardy on his line-up but would be looking up to Super Eagles duo of Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi to make the difference as both Liverpool meet again for the second time inside three days. On the mid-week, it was the battle of fringes in the EFL Cup competition, won by Leicester on a 2-0 margin. But this time, it will be more serious as both manager hunt for three points to stay put in the English Premier League. The Foxes have so far struggled for consistency and managed to win just once from 5 Premier League matches so far. This was against the newly promoted Brighton on matchday 2. While they lost 3 of the remaining 4 before salvaging a draw away at Huddersfield last weekend. Leicester faced the Arsenal, Manchester United and Chelsea during the period, matches they lost fighting. Liverpool looked good at the start of the season when they picked up 2 wins and a draw from the first three, including a thumping 3-0 win against Arsenal. However, things have not gone well for the Reds after the international break. They were thrashed 5-0 at the Etihad by Manchester City, which was followed by an underwhelming 1-1 draw against Burnley at Anfield last weekend. Defending is a major problem for this team, which could cost them heavily on days the attack do not put on a perfect display. The last four head-to-head Premier League meetings are all won by the respective home sides. Leicester won the corresponding fixture 3-1 last season, when they were struggling at the edge of relegation zone. The reverse leg at Anfield was a 4-1 Liverpool win. With the latest cup win, Leicester have their last three home matches against Liverpool in all competitions, scoring a minimum 2 goals in each. Despite the home dominance in the h2h meetings, Leicester have a huge problem coming into Saturday’s fixture. Jamie Vardy is not fully fit and they could struggle to score goals here. Liverpool will be more hungry for a win after the latest dropped points and Klopp’s men and expected to register a rare win on Saturday.