Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said his administration will sustain revival of the state’s secondary health care facilities across the state. The governor also called on political office holders to invest in their respective constituencies as a means of empowering their communities. Commissioning the reconstructed General Hospital, Abua, yesterday, Wike said health facilities abandoned by the immediate past administration will be completed to ensure that Rivers people have access to quality health care. The governor said his administration is working on completing the Mother and Child Hospital in Port Harcourt, as well as zonal hospitals at Degema, Bori and Etche. “Hospitals being constructed or reconstructed were abandoned. They were in a sorry state of abandonment, despite the funds which accrued to the state. We have started the process to complete abandoned zonal hospitals and the Mother and Child Hospital.  We promised the people we will reconstruct this hospital and we have delivered on our promise. We don’t make promises and start giving flimsy excuses.” Wike urged leaders to promote peace in their communities to create the right environment for the execution of meaningful projects.  He also called on Rivers people to “stand up in defence” of their mandate, irrespective of the antics of the ruling party. “You must be vigilant to stop any of form of political robbery. Stop any action that will lead to the robbery of our votes,” he said The governor commended the member representing Abua/Odual/Ahoada East Federal Constituency, Mrs Betty Apiafi,  for equipping Abua General Hospital Abua. In her remarks, Apiafi thanked the governor for remembering the people of Abua/Odual Local Government Area. Giving a project description, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Mrs Caroline Wali said the 60-bed hospital was moribund and completely neglected before the total reconstruction. Thousands of Abua people celebrated the reconstruction  of the general hospital. Governor Wike also announced the construction of Ekago-Ogboloma-Adada Road  in the area.