Stories by  RITA OKOYE Few months ago, rumours had it that the young marriage of Ghanaian actor, Chris Attoh and Nigerian actress, Damilola Adegbite was at the verge of collapse. The rumour was fueled by their attitudes towards each other on social media during the last Valentine’s Day, which doubled as their wedding anniversary. Attoh had posted several photos of his wife on Instagram, wishing her a happy wedding anniversary, but Damilola failed to respond. However, it seems the lovebirds have settled their differences and ready to make their marriage work. Gushing about his wife recently, Attoh described Damilola, who is currently in London, as a great woman. “She is such a great woman and just launched her Alpha Woman project, which helps to empower women,” he told KMJ of Hitz FM. When asked about the numerous divorce reports, Attoh said: “I don’t hear them, I don’t read them. I’m too focused, I can’t be too bothered with all these… what is important is in front of me.” He further disclosed that he later got a response from his wife on their wedding anniversary. “I got my response. The response doesn’t have to be on Instagram. I remember speaking to her that evening, because I was in South Africa then. Adding to that, our busy schedules do keep us apart but that hasn’t affected our marriage.  It’s tough because sometimes I might be away for two, three months but that’s usually the interval. When she can come, she comes, when I can go, I go…”  Why I keep my wife away from prying eyes – Yul Edochie Yul, last son of veteran actor, Pete Edochie, comes across as a young man destined for greatness, as he is carefully following the footsteps of his father. The father of three, who has been married for over a decade, would go to any length to protect his young family.
When Inside Nollywood inquired about Yul’s wife, May, the actor had this to say: “My wife is not an actress, she’s not into show business, she’s a computer engineer. She is also a businesswoman, she’s not into the whole paparazzi spotlight thing; it’s her lifestyle. So, she can’t be in the media eyes.” The Oros perfume brand ambassador expressed gratitude to God for the success of his career and for giving him the grace to maintain a good name in the industry. “My brand is waxing strong, all thanks to God. I have built a good name over time, which I work so hard to maintain, only by God’s grace. People love the brand as well. We are working on a lot of new stuff that would be made public soon. “As for my academy, it has been on a low key for a while and that’s because of my busy schedule. I make sure I teach my students personally. So, it hasn’t been easy, combining work and teaching. But a new session will be starting next month,” he stated.  Kidney disease survivor, Leo Mezie, gives back to society After miraculously surviving kidney disease late last year, Nollywood actor, Leo Mezie is ready to give back to society that helped to save his life when it mattered most. The actor, who was down with kidney disease for almost four months, has reeled out plans to launch his Foundation in partnership with Sunrise Foundation Dublin on May 1, 2017 at St. Mary’s Catholic Church, Isolo, Lagos.
According to the actor, the launch will also witness a seminar/lecture on diabetes and kidney ailment as well as provide free medical care. Hear Mezie: “I want to use this Foundation to create an avenue to give back to the society that did a lot for me when I was down. To say a big thank you for the love and support I got from Nigerians. So, I want to reach out to others with the same problem but who don’t have the kind of opportunity I had. Our objective at Leo Mezie Kidney Foundation is to educate people about the causes of this disease and possible cure. And also assist people who are down with kidney related disease.”  Giving birth to my daughter saved me from torture, pains –Uche Elendu One year ago, sultry actress, Uche Elendu had her second daughter, Osinachi, who she dubbed “miraculous”. A few days ago, her little princess turned a year old and the excited mother couldn’t hide her joy. Regardless of the controversy surrounding the birth of the baby, and even the actress’ marriage, Elendu maintains that the birth of the baby relieved her of pains and torture. Her story: “Once upon a time, my life was lit up so bright and my story changed to the glory of the Almighty God. Osinachi is her name because she is truly from God. God used her to show the world and me that He is God all by Himself. My miracle baby, a child that defied all medical results and was conceived, a child that beat ‘Endometriosis’ and saved her mother from daily torture of pain and painkillers. “I suffered endo for seven years and I went through the most painful years of my life, taking voltaren for pain everyday of my life, and travelling all around the world seeking medical treatment. My gynecologist in South Africa said to me: ‘Uche, endometriosis has no cure, there’s no guarantee that it won’t grow back after this surgery’. “Imagine a doctor saying this to you in the recovery room of a just concluded surgery. Oh God, I was shattered, and true to her word, one month after I got back to Nigeria, it started again and I went back to my misery. The pain of knowing you can’t conceive again, the pain of taking different sorts of medicine both herbal and orthodox to dry up the growth, the pain of going through excruciating pain in your stomach everyday. My daughter kept asking me ‘mummy when am I gonna have a sister? All my classmates have sisters’, and this I always presented to God.” However, after all the pains and sorrows, Uche’s midnight tears were wiped away. Hear her: “I travelled to the US for another surgery. On my arrival at the hospital in the US, I paid my bills and was scheduled for surgery, my vitals and other tests were carried out, I went home and came back the next day to be operated upon only for the doctor to call me into his office and ask: ‘Uche when was your last period?’ and I said ‘last week’ and he said ‘okay, sorry, we have to do a confirmation test on you’. I said to confirm what? And he is like ‘I’ll see you in 30 minutes’. “Then I went to give my blood sample and waited to be called in. I went into that office again and the doctor said to me: ‘Uche this is a rare case’. My heart raced, I was scared of what he wanted to say, and then he said, ‘you are 10 weeks pregnant!!!’ Oh my God how? When? Where? All I could say was ‘Jesus!!! But I’ve been seeing my regular periods, and the Lord spoke to me and said ‘I am that I am. I do what I say I will do. For your sake, I have broken protocols; I make impossibilities possible’.”