From: Paul Osuyi, Asaba Immediate past governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan and other political leaders of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta south senatorial district have endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for second term come 2019 elections. The endorsement, which is coming few weeks after returnee former governor James Ibori also tacitly backed Okowa to do another term, was one of the resolutions reached at a meeting of leaders of the PDP in Delta south hosted by Dr. Uduaghan in Warri. The meeting was attended by the Governor Okowa, and his deputy, Kingsley Otuaro, a ranking senator representing Delta south, James Manager, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Leo Ogor, lawmakers, commissioners among others. The latest endorsement may have put paid to speculations that the relationship between Dr. Uduaghan and his successor has not be cordial, and that the former governor was on his way of the PDP. Reacting, a chieftain of the party and executive director (finance and administration) Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC), Askia Ogieh described the endorsement as a proof of the outstanding landmark achievements of the incumbent governor. Askia described Okowa as a Pan Delta leader, who is using good governance initiatives in laying solid foundation for the socio-economic remodeling of the state, even with the meager resources at his disposal. He also praised the human capital development and economic empowerment policies of the Okowa-led administration which has transformed the lives of the majority of youths in the state. While revealing that Deltans have resolved to sustain power rotation in the state and allow Delta North to complete her eight years of two terms, he appealed to all Deltans at home and in the Diaspora to rally round the governor for his re-election in 2019 for the sake of equity, good conscience and natural justice. He urged all PDP faithful in Delta South to queue behind the governor Okowa, the state PDP Chairman, Barr. Kingsley Esiso and the Delta South PDP Chairman, Prince Emmanuel Amgbaduba in a bid to keep the party strong and united.