From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja‎ The Health Minister, Prof. Isaac Adewole disclosed on Wednesday that a total of 813 deaths were recorded from the outbreak of meningitis in the country as at April 25. He however assured that the cases will drop with the commencement of rainfall in the country, he said that vaccination will commence in Sokoto State on Thursday. According to him, there will be house to house search in Sokoto and Zamfara states to bring those infected to proper treatment. He said “We are also dispatching medical teams to Sokoto and Zamfara States to help with active case findings. We want to do house to house searches so that we can bring those with meningitis out for treatment. Also, the Federal Executive Council, FEC, presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has approved ‎N3.8 billion for the leasing of fast going vessels to enable The Nigerian Maritime Administration and ‎Safety Agency, (‎NIMASA)‎, ‎ perform is responsibility on the high sea next one year.‎ The Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi said this while briefing State House correspondents at the end of the meeting which lasted for about two hours and had just 15 ministers in attendance. Council also approved the purchase of land patrol vehicles for the Nigerian Immigration Service. It approved the procurement of 56 vehicles at a total cost of N358 million. It also approved the change in the cost of construction of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) headquarters due to foreign exchange fluctuation. The new cost is N5billion. Amaechi said: “Council approved three things. One was NIMASA that has to do with the lease of fast going vessels to enable NIMASA perform is responsibility on the high sea. “The cost for the lease for NIMASA is N3.8 billion for the next one year. “The other is the purchase of land patrol vehicles for the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). 56 vehicles to be procured at a total cost of N358 million. “The last was the change in the cost of construction of the EFCC headquarters due to foreign exchange fluctuation. This is additional N5 billion Naira.” he said.  . 