By Tony Ogaga On Saturday, April 22, all roads will lead to Freedom Park, Lagos for the second edition of D’lyte and D’stars concert, a platform set up by fast rising singer, Stella Ebegbune aka D’lyte to discover and nurture fresh talents. In this chat with Entertainer, D’lyte whose music was influenced by the likes of Onyeka Onwenu, Tina Turner and Whitney Houston opens up on her concert; love life and why she thinks men find her intimidating. Enjoy it. Tell us about yourself? I am simple and interesting. Though, very shy, people mistake me for a snob. I am one who finds clubbing boring. In fact, I sleep in the club while people are busy dancing (laughter). I am more of a home girl and my looks could be deceptive. I love to stay home to plan and play with my nieces. I love kids; they are so innocent. How did music start for you? It is an in-built talent I got from my dad; may his soul rest in peace. I was very close to dad and always listened to the kind of songs he played. I realised and developed music when my elder sister started depriving me of doing sports.  Actually, football was my first love. I have never revealed this to anyone, and my only pain is that I didn’t play football professionally, because I was very good at it. I love sports so much that I don’t only play football; I also play table tennis, volleyball and lawn tennis. But music was my best friend and only companion when my eldest sister beat me each time I went out to the field to train with guys. I was so good I was part of my school’s team that won the Principal’s Cup at the inter-school competitions but music has been my closest friend. It saw me through the dark times I was denied sports. I would sit and cry for hours, and since I was the smallest at home and nobody to cry out to or help me talk to my sister, music filled the vacuum. What were your challenges when you started out? Women are not really encouraged by record labels. Sometimes I feel like the industry is for men, and so, I had to work like a man. You would hear on TV and radio stations about a show but you will hardly hear a woman’s name, and even if you do, it is only one or two female acts. And even now that there are more TV and radio platforms, as a woman you need huge sums of money to promote yourself. Music now is capital intensive. Females should be encouraged instead of thinking ‘oh, after investing in a female act, one day one man will come and marry or impregnate her and then my investment is gone’ (laughter). What inspired D’lyte & D’stars? It’s lack of platforms for real talent; fake talents have flooded the industry and real talents are an endangered species and it hurts badly. The sole aim for D’lyte & D’stars is to create a stage for fresh talents who do not have a means of promoting their acts. Lack of structures in the music industry coupled with hardship in the society does not give room for fresh acts to go far; hence I decided to create a platform for real talents, and with God’s blessings, I will someday be able to sign up artistes especially female acts. What should we expect on Saturday? Good, rich entertainment; world changing discoveries, warmth and more. What does love mean to you? Love means life and living. I am here today because love and happiness have been my foundation from birth. You are a pretty lady. Tell us about the man in your life. Sometimes beautiful and hardworking ladies could be a problem to some men. While some will feel blessed that they have a beautiful and hardworking woman, others will not. Well, I am fully ripe for marriage but right now, I am tired of the whole idea of relationship. It is hard for a man to love you without complex. I am a lover girl. I love to love and to be with the one that I love, but I am tired of men having complex. I don’t know if it is only common among Nigerian men. Maybe I should think of settling down with a foreigner, though I have never tried dating one. I am tired of giving my all and get nothing in return. Have you ever been heart broken? Oh yes. It happened last year. He was seeing someone behind my back, and she lived at the back of where I lived. He even lied that she was his aunty. It hurts real badly! Could you describe your ideal man and what it will take to win your heart? Just be yourself but you must be a God fearing man. You must be neat, caring and funny; you should be able to make me laugh. I can’t stand liars and proud people. What are your dreams? My dream is to make heaven, but before then, I wish to own the biggest record label; discovering artistes especially the female ones. Any regrets choosing music? Never, no regrets at all.  In fact, music keeps me going. Without music, life would have had no meaning. Even when I dropped law for music, I had no regrets.