By Joe Apu THE League Management Company (LMC) in further- ance to its zero tolerance to violence at match venues on Tuesday came down heavily on three clubs imposing varying sanctions on Kano Pillars, Remo Stars, Katsina United, two players of Kano Pillars and a goalkeeper of Enyimba International. The decisions according to the LMC was to reas- sure fans, players and coaches of their safety at league venues on match days stressing that it will continue to enforce safety regulations and sanction every acts of violation to deter unruliness at match venues. A breakdown of the sanctions reveals that Kano Pil- lars were fined a total sum N7.25m and a deduction of three points. In addition to the fines, the LMC also or- dered the closure of the stadium to fans until further notice and directed them to identify and hand over to the Police for prosecution, its match security stewards who led the attack on match officials during the Match Day 18 fixture against Akwa United. For incidents on Match Day 15 in Shagamu the LMC imposed a cumula- tive fine of N2.5m on Remo Stars and restriction of fans from attending three home matches and compensation of N250, 000 for assault on Sports Journalists, Kelvin Ekerete. Katsina United got fined a total of N2.5m which in- cluded N500, 000 as compensation to Enyimba Inter- national and a cost to be determined for repair of their damaged vehicle. The club is also to play the next three home matches behind closed doors. Enyimba’s goal- keeper, Fatau Dauda was suspended for one match and fined N50, 000 for aggression towards a ball boy during their match against Katsina United. Dauda was charged for breaches which included assault on a ball boy and acts capable of inciting others to commit violence dur- ing their match day 18 fixture against Katsina United. Rabiu Ali and Murtala Adamu of Kano Pillars were also sanctioned for threatening of the Referee. Meanwhile reports coming out of Enugu indicate that Rangers management has named former Eagles assis- tant coach Sylvanus Okpala as the club’s new coach. Okpala takes over from Imama Amakapabo who was sacked early this week. 