From Paul Osuyi, Asaba FOLLOWING relative peace in the oil-rich creeks of Delta as a result of ceasefire by militants, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has urged multinational oil companies and other corporate organisations to come back to the state. Okowa made the appeal when he addressed representatives of 17 cluster communities in Warri and environs, to round off an advocacy visit aimed at fostering mutually benefitting rapport between oil and gas producing communities and oil companies. Communities visited include Ode-Itsekiri, Orugbo, Ugbuwangue, Ugbori, Dandu, Iyara, Ekurede-Itsekiri, Ubeji, Egbokodo, Omadino, Ogunu, Edjeba, Agbasa, Igbudu, Okere, Okurede-Urhobo and Ogbe-Ijoh. The governor, represented by his Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Mr. Mofe Pirah, said most of the issues that led to the problem of militancy had been addressed. “Aside the high powered committee, led by the deputy governor, who visited some of the communities and other steps taken by the state government at addressing the problem, the visit of Vice President, Yemi Osibanjo, to the areas, helped in dousing tensions in the oil producing communities and since April and June last year, there has been no case of terrorist attack on oil pipelines. “The engagement sessions with the oil producing communities is to create another forum to share ideas with the people on best way forward, especially now that some of the companies, including SPDC, have indicated interest to return. “There must be enabling environment for the companies to operate. The problem of companies not honouring memorandum of understanding (MoU) entered into with communities had dominated the complaints of the people and it is sad that, in most of the communities, leaders not knowledgeable enough were used to draw up the MoU. “Henceforth, the state government will midwife all MoUs between oil companies and host communities, to avoid seed of discord being planted, even at the beginning of the exercise, due to selfish interests.” He said the time to change from the old way of doing things where community leaders negotiate with companies, instead of equal participation of the communities was over, as the people could continue to suffer in the midst of plenty. “Government will continue to encourage peaceful communities by attracting development to the areas. No meaningful progress can be made in an environment of disunity, restiveness and crisis. “I appeal to you all to go back to your places, organise town hall meetings with your people and explain to them on the need to shun all acts capable of discouraging investment in the state. “Say no to pipeline vandalism, equipment theft, kidnapping, armed robbery and stoppage of work on site. Steps are being taken to outlaw multiple levies on developers by communities, particularly in Warri and Uvwie axis of the state,” he said. Some of the community representatives agreed that some oil companies, leaving Warri, have negatively impacted on the stakeholders and commended steps being taken by government for their return. They decried under development of the communities and negligence, failure in their corporate responsibilities, disunity among the people and selfishness of some of the communities leaders. 