From: Rose Ejembi, Makurdi Hundreds of Benue Women, on Monday, demanded demand for 50 percent affirmative action for women into elective and appointive positions in the state government. This, they did in a peaceful protest to the state Government House in Makurdi. The women, who left their homes as early as 6:00am to converged on Royal Choice Inn, from they later moved to the Government House. On their way, they chanted solidarity songs such as “Solidarity forever”, “We no go Gree” among others, demanding for the involvement of more women at all levels of decision-making. They also bore placards with different inscriptions, such as “gender justice or no vote”, “one male one female, give us our rights,” “more women as appointees, not just as dancers and cooks”, among others, and stood at the entrance of the New Banquet Hall for almost an hour before they were ushered into the hall to meet with Governor Samuel Ortom. Leader of the group, Mrs. Priscilla Achakpa, who spoke on behalf of the women, lamented what she described as inadequate involvement of women in key areas of development as promised in the five strategic pillars of Government as contained in the Collective Vision for a New Benue which has since become the state development plan 2016-2025. Achakpa said they had come to register their concerns about the low level of representation of women in the state’s Executive Council and other appointive positions in the state and appealed that sale of nomination forms be reopened to enable more women participate in the forthcoming council elections in the state. They demanded that a minimum of 10 women should be elected as council chairman, six as Vice Chairmen and a minimum of 50 percent of councilors should be women as well as a recognition of the Gender Advocacy Group as a critical stakeholder at all stakeholders meetings. While commending Governor Ortom for his commitment and political will in handling issues as demonstrated in his quick response to emergencies, Achakpa, however, noted that there was no justifiable reason why she would speak for the African women at the United Nations but remain mute when the women are not well represented in her home state. Responding, Governor Ortom thanked the women for maintaining a peaceful disposition in their protest described the protest as timely, as it was done at a time when all political stakeholders were in the Benue Peoples House for a meeting and assured them that their concerns would be addressed by relevant stakeholders. Also remarking, wife of the gvernor, Dr. Eunice Ortom, enjoined stakeholders to support her husband in ensuring that more women were empowered in the state to compliment the efforts of the men. Also speaking, State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abba Yaro described his party as gender friendly as exemplified in the issuance of free forms to women for elective positions. 