• Lagos govt furious also By Christopher Oji and Itoro Godwin The military and the police have declared war on militants over yesterday’s killing of an Army Captain, another soldier, four policemen and a civilian at the Isawo Area of Ikorodu, Lagos. Militants from Ishawo creek stormed the Woodland Estate, in Ishawo yesterday, robbed residents and abducted some. Promising the militants hell, Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni,  said with the synergy from sister security agencies, criminal elements involved in the killing of the soldiers and policemen would be apprehended and brought  to book. In the same vein,  the army has revealed that a combined team of the police and military was in hot pursuit of the killer militants, who fled the scene carrying the dead bodies of their colleagues and the wounded. According to Lt Col Olaolu Daudu, acting deputy director, Army Public Relations, the combine team was on the militants’ trail “as they have vowed that the death of the gallant officer and men of the Nigeria Police who fought bravely for the success of the operation will not be in vain. “We would like to use this medium to implore anyone with useful information to come forward, while we reassure the general public, especially the residents of Isawo community in Ikorodu of their continued safety.” Also, the Lagos State government has promised  to go after criminal elements and their collaborators using coastal areas and illegal waterfront settlements as havens or escape routes to perpetrate evil and criminal activities. In a statement by the state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Steve Ayorinde, the government declared that all the people directly or remotely linked to the Ishawo dastardly act would be brought to justice in the shortest possible time. “We wish to solicit the understanding and support of the public on the need to rid our waterways of illegal shanties that are not only an eyesore to our collective decency but have become a fertile ground for breeding illicit and illegal activities that constitute danger to the security and wellbeing of the larger public,” the government said. The militants, who shot sporadically, were said to have operated for hours, moving from targets to targets. It was gathered that some residents, who could not bear the cacophony of the gunshots, started fleeing the area.  The hoodlums, after successful operation,  took away about 10 residents. A resident, Mike Erico, told Daily Sun: “While the raiding was going on, we sent  a distress call to the Joint Task Force in the area, and they responded, though very late. By the time the team arrived,  some residents had been taken away. “It was when the security agents were coming to rescue the residents that the militants ambushed them and shot dead four policemen and a soldier. “I can’t really say how many of our people were killed, as many are missing. We don’t know those taken away, killed or those who fled out of fear. We will reconcile the casualty figure during the week. But, I know that many people may have suffered casualty.” Another resident, Abiodun Musibau, said: “We are in trouble. We thought with the presence of the Joint security Task Force in our area we are safe. Today’s war between the government security agency and the militant is an indication that the militants are getting more formidable. I am suggesting that the government should continue with the bombardment of the creek as was done last year. I am relocating to Ketu with my family.” A police source claimed that the militants escaped with bullet injuries, while five kidnapped victims were rescued by the Joint Security Task Force. However, the State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni, said the police, yesterday received a distress call that a group of militants/kidnappers had entered Owutu-Isawo, in Ikorodu, through the thick swampy forest surrounding the area. He said: “They were reported to have kidnapped some residents. In response, the police  and the Army, immediately mobilised personnel to the area, where the kidnapped victims were rescued. Sadly however, five out of the gallant, brave and patriotic officers lost their lives during the rescue operation. One of them is a Nigerian Army Captain, while the remaining four are policemen. A resident of the area also died. “We pray that God Almighty rewards their loyalty to the nation with paradise and grant their families the courage to bear the loss.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State government yesterday commiserated with the families of policemen and soldiers that lost their lives in Ishawo area of Ikorodu after an ambush unleashed on them by militants. The state government described the incident as unfortunate but insisted that it would only strengthen its resolve to floush crime and criminalities out of the state. The statement by Ayorinde, said Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, was deeply touched and condoled with the families and loved ones of the departed officers. “The governor, however, assures the police and general public of his support and commitment to rid the State of every form of militancy, kidnappings, and illegal waterfront shanties that harbour criminals,” Ayorinde said. “We wish to solicit the understanding and support of the public on the need to rid our waterways of illegal shanties that are not only an eyesore to our collective decency but have become a fertile ground for breeding illicit and illegal activities that constitute danger to the security and wellbeing of the larger public,” the government said.