As the crisis rocking the world of embattled blogger, Kemi Olunloyo, who is currently being incarcerated for libeling a pastor soars, Cossy Orjiakor has relieved her sex-with-dog scandal and taken a swipe at pastors.
Sympatising with the blogger, the exhibitionist shared the following message: on her social media platform: “I expected Kemi to be locked up by her father, Obasanjo, Mr. Kosoko or other actors but a pastor? Hahhaha, that really beats my imagination. Well, maybe I should have reported every pastor that defamed me during the dog saga. Yes they preached during the ordeal, after the whole frame up.
“I was hurting. I was alone. I was a poor little girl trying to find her way, trying to understand life. I was called all sorts of names. Pastors preached, the congregation moaned and rained curses to the names that brought shame to womanhood.. Hahahhahahha.
“My mum was in church somewhere in Abuja. The pastor preached this fake sermon about the lust after money and the girl that slept with dog just for $10,000. Who was she then to challenge the pastor? Well she was just the mother to the girl that supposedly slept with dog. She simply left the church and never went back.
“My father wasn’t spared either. In Anambra, they gathered in the church and went to my village house to rain curses on the girl who brought immense shame to the church and the village. My father knew it was just a movie so never really cared. I was withdrawn and hurting. How can an award winning performance I was paid only N30,000 bring me so much headache and pains? How can the pastors believe such lies? Didn’t they call on God for guidance before preaching and prosecuting me back then? The magazine made lots of money off the image they created of me. The jobs stopped coming. From a young starlet I went down to zero. All hope was lost. I thank God I didn’t take a leap of fate into the now popular Eko Bridge.
“The people I looked up to described me in unimaginable ways. That was when I really decided that most pastors have lost touch with God. I forgave them all. The magazine, the pastors. Do you know the true identity of the man that turned me into a pimp? Do you know the true identity of Iyanu? Same old stories. I leave you to do the calculation because Mr? Real profession is written in ungrateful Delilah. And if they come after me again, hahahahahhaha, everyone goes down. #freekoo #freemadamhnn.” Oritsefemi, others for D’ Lyte & D’ Stars concert
As the countdown to the 2017 edition of D’Lyte & D’Stars concert gathers momentum, it has emerged that Oritsefemi, African China, Eedris Abdul Kareem, Azeezat and Spydaman are among the acts that will entertain when the show kicks off on April 22 at Freedom Park, Lagos by 4pm.
According to a source who spoke to TS Weekend, this year’s edition will be bigger and better than last year’s. “This year’s event will be mind blowing! It will feature great stars that will motivate and inspire the up-and-coming artistes, comedians and dancers. Oritsefemi, African China, Eedris Abdul Kareem, Azeezat and Zdon Paoprella are among a host of entertainers that will thrill in what promises to be a night of undiluted comedy and explosive music.
“The beautiful and amazing Superwoman crooner, D’lyte, is truly following the steps of a superwoman as she gathers stars to rock the 2017 edition of her concert. Despite the recession,  she has shown that a true superwoman is someone who despite the hardship in the music industry still manages to carry along fresh talents,” the source added
Among others, the event will be hosted by Omobaba and veteran singer, Stella Monye will make a Special Guest appearance. Opportunities beckon as Brazil moves to partner Nollywood
Nollywood has done it again! In far away Brazil, the head of the country’s movie regulatory body has reached out to Nollywood in a move to explore collaboration and partnership opportunities.
According to veteran filmmaker, Eddy Ugboma who broke the news to TS Weekend, the Brazilians are particularly interested in Yoruba films.
“It is going to be a big project that will take Nollywood to the next level. A while ago, the head of the Brazilian film regulatory body reached out to me. They are particularly interested in the Yoruba sector of Nollywood. They want to hold a Nollywood film festival in Brazil and there will also be opportunities for partnerships,” Ugboma told TS Weekend.
Indeed, Nigeria and Brazil share a lot of cultural similarities courtesy of slave trade and Brazilians are also known to worship Yoruba deities including Ogun and Sango etc. Stanzee Records’ act, Bamidele, dreams big
New Stanzee Records signee, Bamidele is set to take the Nigerian music scene by storm as he releases his first single, Laye, a fusion of Afro-pop and Afro-highlife, produced by Milla Rankz.
Commenting, the singer said: “I am very happy today that after endless nights and days of hard work, my debut single, Laye is out. I am calling on lovers of good music to go online and get the free download.”
To date, the act has earned rave reviews for his charisma and lyrical depth and ingenious artistic elements in his music as depicted in the eye-catching video for his debut single shot by Matt Max on location in Lagos.
While it is his undeniable talent that has put him firmly in the spotlight in 2017, it is certain that there is more to come from the young crooner in the coming years as Bamidele is gunning for greatness as he combines a good voice, dashing looks and a great management in Stanzee Records, a record company ready to push the brand to the biggest heights while helping him achieve his dreams,” Ojukokoro is all about greed-Baba Agba, movie producer
Baba Agba, co-producer of wave making flick, Ojukokoro, which is currently heating up cinemas has declared that the flick is all about exposing the antics of greedy people.
“It is my first feature length movie. It was an amazing experience when I came across the script in the first half of 2015; I was blown away. The director reached out to me and I liked it and we started talking about how we could make it work and here we are today.
“It is a Nigerian film that mixes different languages; it is a summary of the Nigerian experience. It shows what greed can do to people. The betrayal, the double crossing and backstabbing and the maliciousness of it. The response has been great as we have been receiving rave reviews,” he explains.
Directed by Dare Olaitan, Ojukokoro features Wale Ojo, Ali Nuhu, Tope Tedela, Somkele Idalama, Linda Ejiofor, Zainab Balogun, Hafiz Oyetoro (Saka) and Seun Ajayi among a host of others.
To date, Baba Agba who studied film in the UK has shot short films, documentaries, commercials, and music videos. His film credits incude One Chance, Erased, Ojukokoro, The Lost Café and Visions among others.