From: Ali Abare, Gombe The Zone E qualifiers for the forthcoming Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) has commenced at the Gombe State University (GSU). The grand finale of NUGA Games is scheduled for April 19-30 in Makurdi, Benue State, However, only nine of the 17 universities expected from the zone arrived in Gombe to compete in 13 games jointly hosted by the University of Maiduguri (Unimaid) and GSU. In a welcome address, Vice Chancellor of the Gombe State University, Professor I. M. Umar, on Sunday, described the NUGA Games as a forum where university students come together to compete as well as foster long lasting friendship. He equally described the universities game as an avenue where sports men and women are produced who would represent the country both within and outside the country. Prof. Umar urged the competing teams to show discipline and sportsmanship while also cautioning them against conduct that is inimical to the spirit of the competition. Professor Stephen Hammafyelto, who represented the vice chancellor of UNIMAID, praised GSU for hosting the games. He described GSU as the fastest developing university in the North East as well as the country at large. “I believe hosting NUGA will give GSU the opportunity to include sports in its curriculum. This will also give the university an opportunity to upgrade sporting facilities and to bid for hosting the NUGA finale,” he said. He enjoined the participating teams to exhibit high sense of skills and discipline to foster mutual understanding. The opening ceremony saw the representative of the Gombe State Head of Civil Service kick starting a football match between the host university, GSU and Yobe State University. Two teams each are expected to qualify for each of the 13 competitive games, with 26 teams cutting across universities from the zone to head to the NUGA finals in Makurdi next month. Universities participating at the NUGA Zone E qualifiers include University of Jos, Gombe State University, Modibbo Adama University Mubi, Yobe State University, Benue State University, Federal University Kashere and University of Maiduguri.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 