From: Kemi Yesufu and Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Members of the House of Representatives, on Tuesday, observed a minute of silence in honour of the late Senator Isiaka Adeleke. The federal lawmakers, who adjourned plenary till Wedsnesday in honour of the deceased, took turns to eulogise him. Lawmaker representing Ede North/Ede South/Egbedore/Ejigbo Federal Constituency of Osun State, Alabi Mojeed, brought the death of the former Osun State governor to the notice of the House, described his passage as a great loss to the country. Alabi, who became ternary-eyed during his eulogy, said though Adeleke was elected as governor at 37 and did not complete his tenure due to the Abacha coup, his achievements ensured that he became “a constant factor in Osun State and Nigeria at large”. Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yussuff Lasun, in his contribution said the late senator was a trailblazer who towered above others in the field of politics, business and in philanthropy. Said he, “Adeleke was the son of a former senator, who became governor at an age many of his contemporaries where still trying to find their way in life. He later was elected as a senator. He therefore didn’t betray the legacy left behind by his father, Senator Ayoola Adeleke”,  the Deputy Speaker said. Hon. Lasun, who recalled that four months back, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Osun State chapter executive,  had ordered him and the late senator to stop all forms of campaigns for governorship of his state, however said Adeleke’s style of politics led to his remaining cordial with him and the entire Yussuff family. On her part, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha posited that Adeleke’s death was also being felt in Abia State where his mother hailed from. Onyejeocha who disclosed that she performed the compulsory  National Youth Service year as a protocol staff in the office of the Osun State governor, when the late senator was in office, maintained that he lived for improving the lot of the poor. Chairman House Committee on Capital Market, Tajudeen Yusuf said Adeleke as his counterpart in the Senate displayed uncommon team spirit and was always cooperative in seeing to legislative interventions to make Nigeria’s capital market more competitive.