From Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Former governor of Delta State, James Ibori, visited the graveside of former governor of Bayelsa State, late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, yesterday.
Ibori, who was close to tears, assured the family he will always remember and stand by them, and added that their father would have done the same for his family.
The former governor said he was devastated when he heard about Alamieyeseigha’s death when he (Ibori), was in the United Kingdom. He noted that the late Alamieyeseigha was a priceless asset in the service of the Ijaw nation.
Ibori said he and Alamieyeseigha shared a common ideology and relationship which was very deep, and added that Alamieyeseigha, until his demise, fought against oppression and evil which ultimately led to his death.
At the family house of the Alamieyeseighas in Amassoma, Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, he described the former governor as a patriotic leader who was courageous and outspoken and stood on the side of his people at all times.
Ibori, who was in Bayelsa to visit Governor Seriake Dickson and widow of Alamieyeseigha, Margret, was accompanied by Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral John Gboribiogha Jonah, Delta State House of Assembly Speaker, Monday Igbuya and political leaders from Delta.
Earlier, Ibori had commended Dickson for immortalising ‎the foremost Ijaw hero by renaming the Government House banquet hall after him and for pushing forward his noble ideas of governance and strong agitation for rights of Ijaw people and Niger Delta. “I take solace in the fact that having met you, I am encouraged that, indeed, the flag only flew half mast for a couple of days and after that, the flag is flying again. Thank you for playing your bit to immortalise him. He may have left us but his spirit is still with us,” Ibori said.
When asked about his political future, he said he is off politics for now but when he returns, Nigerians would know.
“Unfortunately, I cannot talk about politics now. I have taken time off politics. I am here just to sympathise with the governor and the people of Bayelsa over the death of my brother. When the time comes for politics, I am sure you would hear from me loud and clear,” he said.
In his remarks, Dickson urged the Niger Delta people to stop betraying their leaders and said both Alamieyeseigha and Ibori were victims of the Niger Delta struggle which was as a result of their campaign for resource control and fiscal federalism. “We have done enough when it comes to betraying, sabotaging and pulling down one another, especially our leaders. Nobody in this nation will build and sustain leaders for us, we have to build our leaders, support and encourage them. So, I think the time has come for us in the Niger Delta to turn a new leaf and learn from others,” he said.