From Jeff Amechi Abgodo, Onitsha Chief Zeribe Chukwuma Ezeanuna is a founding member of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a governorship aspirant in the forthcoming governorship election in Anambra state.
He said that the leadership tussle at the National level of the party would strengthen the party and would make the party stronger ahead of the contest.
Do you have a godfather?
In PDP, we have many political leaders, each playing various roles competitively. I do not have a political godfather but I have Jesus as my boss. As an Igbo activist, I consider it my singular responsibility to laud and take sides with actions of our leaders which project us in good light in Nigeria. And in so doing, help to identify leadership traits that can represent Ndi Igbo efficiently and effectively well in Nigeria. In that context, I identify with the former governor, Mr. Peter Obi in his efforts to project the image of the Igboman in areas of integrity, vision, wisdom, probity, prudent in the use of public and private funds, raising awareness on the need to save, hard work, etc. I look up to him just as a son look up to his father.
Which of the PDP camp do you belong, Sheriff or Makarfi?
In PDP, we have a political godfather in the person of Chief Chris Uba, (Ochiagha), one of the unsung heroes of the 4th Republic and one of those who have controlling influence as to who becomes our party nominee. I revere him and respect him a lot, especially when one realizes his immense contribution to the entire structure of what we know today as PDP. His friends and foes acknowledge him as a very honest, straight forward but shrewd political leader. We need him and indeed all hands must be on deck for PDP to defeat APGA in the governorship election. The issues at the national level is being sorted out accordingly and here in Anambra I can tell you, our leaders are talking with each other and meeting at the same time. There will be no parallel nomination processes and PDP will present one governorship candidate. PDP, I can tell you is more united and poised to take over Anambra state and that will happen.
What magic will PDP do to win Anambra state in view of the fractionalisation of the party at both the national and state levels?
A regular politician cannot win the election against the incumbent but if the PDP nominates a neutral candidate who does not belong to any faction and who has followers in APC and APGA, it is that kind of unifying candidate that can defeat this governor. I believe I am the candidate that can provide the necessary bridge between the North and South Senatorial Zones.
I equally know that some of those who joined APC in the hope of rigging the election will be disappointed once I am the nominee of the party. APGA will fissile out and APC game plan will become a mistake. It is time for the old Onitsha local government to produce the governor of the state. We will over-run APC because they have practically no base to contest the governorship election in the state. APC lacks the capacity to rig Anambra election as they are flaunting.
If elected the governor, what would be your contract with the people of Anambra state?
My friend you do not have enough space or time to download the details of my plans for Anambra state. However, let me try. First of all, I promise a one- on- one government. By that I mean, a government where every resident is known on a one- on -one basis and where access to government services is a right and not a privilege. I will end discrimination as we know it and set the moral ground to urge other governors to do same across South East and Nigeria in general.
Ndi Anambra constitutes one of the largest populations of victims of discrimination across the entire Nigeria. I will transform the economy from its primitive type base to an economy that is knowledge based where human development is at the core. We will train, train and retrain our people in various vocational trades and make the education of our people the highest priority. We will bring classrooms closer to the people. My administration will partner with the private sector to create 21 private universities and Onitsha metropolitan areas will have universities both private and public. The administration of former governor Peter Obi, laid solid foundation for Anambra state to take off, although the present administration has derailed in a number of ways and squandered what was left.
What edge do you have over other contestants on the PDP platform, like Dr. Alex Obiogbolu, Chief Osita Chidoka and Chief Oseloka Obaze?
Let me start with the former minister of Aviation, Chief Osita Chidoka, he is from Obosi, Anambra Central, Central have ruled for 12 years and development in their area is far ahead of others. In the spirit of fairness and equity, Chidoka should not be in the race at this time. In Anambra Governorship election people vote for their kindred. An Anambra person considers where you are from and vote that way. My opponents have an unfair glass ceiling and a great challenge facing them because their background betrays them. It will take yours truly to be governor before they can be delivered from the political evil spirit tormenting them. Chief Oseloka Henry Obaze must answer the moral question that his aspiration poses. Not long ago, he was Obiano’s boy and Obiano was his boss. How come he is fighting his boss after he contributed to the failures of his administration? Taking advantage has its limit, no matter how opportunist one might be; there is a moral threshold to be met and moral consequences to contend with. I think he is not qualified and the last time I checked Chief Ejike Oguebego and Chief Ken Emekaiye, say he is not a member of PDP. He is not on the ground and those of us from Ogbaru don’t know him either. The political class will chew him like crackers and Chief Willie Obiano will bounce back faster than anyone can imagine.