A non-governmental organisation, the Albino Foundation (TAF) has partner with Total E and P Nigeria Staff Multipurpose Cooperative to enroll 200 indigent Albino children in 21 states of Nigeria. President of the Foundation, Jake Epelle, made the disclosure in an interview, on Thursday, in Abuja. He said the enrollment would cover students in primary and secondary schools. Epelle said the initiative adopted by the foundation was aimed at making history in its support for albinos, adding that TAF envisioned a society with equal opportunity for all persons living with albinism. “Presently we are partnering with Total E and P Nigeria Staff Multipurpose Cooperative Ltd and we had earlier received fund of two million naira for the 2015/2016 academic session. “The second phase of the recruitment for 2016/2017 has commenced and we have about 200 children in both primary and secondary school across the country,’’ he said. He mentioned that the success of the initiative was remarkable for persons living with albinism, who are striving to achieve their personal goals. “This initiative was birthed out, when we discovered that so many children with albinism at a very early age dropout of school and while some parents could train their children others couldn’t. “However, without opportunities for primary and secondary education, some children with albinism have little chance to improve their livelihoods and contribute their quota to their society,’’Epelle said. He added that in 2017, the foundation would focus on scholarship grants and a back-to-school programme for indigent children. Epelle said that the foundation would sensitise teachers and educators on the challenges being encountered by the children and how best to manage their situation in classrooms. He said the foundation enrolled children from the 21 states while giving preference to the northern states due to number of out of school children. He further urged individuals and corporate organisations to partner with the foundation on such a noble initiative. (NAN)