From Wole Balogun, Ado-Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose and his immediate predecessor, Kayode Fayemi, at the weekend, snubbed each other at the 5th coronation anniversary of the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Ajibade Alabi held at the Corpus Christi College in the community. Fayose’s arrival at the event was heralded by shouts of ‘Oshoko’ by his supporters. He made straight for the high table where Fayemi and his wife, Erelu Bisi, were already seated with others. Erelu Bisi had stood up with others to greet Fayose while Fayemi remained on his seat undaunted. Fayose had recently accused Fayemi of plotting to remove him from office through an alleged judicial coup with the help of two Supreme Court judges to reverse the judgment that validated his election in June 2014. Fayemi had since denied the allegation. Ekiti State House of Assembly had also slammed an arrest warrant and N1 million fine on Fayemi for failing to honour its invitation to answer allegations of financial misappropriation. A development, which the minister of Minerals and Steel Development had replied with another lawsuit and demand of damages for defamation of character. Meanwhile, Fayose stole the show when he cursed those plotting to remove him from office, saying God had promised to disgrace them before the end of the year. Fayose said becoming the governor of Ekiti State was through divine arrangement, adding that whoever  was planning evil deeds against him would be put to shame. Lashing out at his distractors, Fayose said: “God was not foolish before making me the governor of Ekiti State; He was not sleeping or slumbering. So, whoever that is against me is against God. And let me say this, God shall vent his anger upon my enemies this year. Some shall be removed from top offices because of me. Some shall fall sick and all these were promises of God for me in 2017.” Fayose said Ooni and Alawe were potent unifying forces in Yoruba race and described the humility of Oba Ogunwusi as a strength that would restore Yoruba’s glory in no distant time. However, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi and Oba Alabi calmed nerves when they both harped on Yoruba unity, pointing out that the South-West could only remain relevant if all political divides were united. The Ooni lauded Alawe for his giant strides in the community, saying he would continue to work for the development of Yoruba race. Also, Oba Alabi, who praised Fayose for embarking on dualisation of Ilawe Road, said the project would add more aesthetic value to the town and open more business opportunities when completed. “Through my instrumentality, the immediate past government extended Fibreoptic cable to Ilawe and today, this town is fully digitalised. My ascension onto this throne is to bring development and this, I will continue to do, because I shall not rest until we get to the desired destination,” he said. 