An educationist, Mr. Sule-Fatai Hassan, says extracurricular activities help to promote healthy relationships  among students and as such, school managements should prioritise them. Hassan, the Zonal Director, Office of Education Quality Assurance in Eti-Osa Local Government Area, Lagos Sate, said that government’s involvement in extra-curricular activities also enhances standard of education. Hassan spoke on the sideline of the Easter Cantata and family funfair organised by the Maria Breed Montessori International School, Ajah, Lagos. Wikipedia defines extracurricular or Extra Academic Activities (EAA) as those activities that fall outside the realm of the normal curriculum of school or university education, performed by students. These include: sporting, drama, dance competition, literary and debating activities performed by students to identify their potentialities outside the classroom works. According to Hassan, attending such events by government officials promotes cordial relationships between the government and schools, especially, the private ones. “School owners should, therefore, see government officials as partners in progress and not as mere school inspectors. “The Office of Quality Assurance is interested in continued improvement of schools’ qualities in curricula and extracurricular activities,’’ the director said. According to him, learning is not all about cognitive but also affective and psychomotor activities, where talents can be discovered. Hassan said that not all children were academically sound; but through extracurricular activities, the talents of such children could be identified and improved upon with the help of their parents and teachers. He advised parents to devote more time to attend their children’s school events to identify their children’s strength and weakness, which might not be identified at home. Also, Proprietress of the school, Mrs. Mabel Babasola, said that the Easter Cantata and family funfair was introduced to educate the children about the message of Easter and its significance. It is also to impact on them the need to be honest and imbibe integrity, she said. “The world is tilting towards negative activities but events like this will make the children to become responsible. “When the children are conscious of their environment, they will avoid social vices that can bring shame to them and their families. “They will concentrate their minds on their studies and its effect on their academic development will be great,’’ Babasola said. According to her, many parents are pleased with their children’s school programmes because such programmes help to groom children to discover their talents and become responsible. During the programme, the students showcased their diverse cultural heritages to the admiration of guests. They also played different musical instruments to entertain guests. Maria Breed School runs both Christian and British Curricular, thus exposing its students to international affiliation. (NAN)