….Says rate of malaria dropped from 36% to 27% From: Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Pharm. Ahmed Yakassai, has commended the Federal Government in the fight against malaria scourge in Nigeria, the rate which he said has reduced from 36% to 26%. Yakassai gave the commendation, on Monday, in Ogidi, Anambra State when he visited the traditional ruler of Ogidi Kingdom, Igwe Alex Uzo Onyido. The monarch is also a member of PSN. Yakassai congratulated him and rejoiced with the people of Ogidi for electing and crowning one of its own traditional ruler of the community. He, therefore, called on the government to sustain the fight against malaria in order to eradicate it completely and urged the people always keep their environment clean and ensure they sleep under the long lasted mosquito treated nets to prevent malaria infections. The PSN president also advised the people who diagnosed malaria parasite to take good anti-malaria drugs and when it persists should consult their doctors for proper treatment, warning against the use of concocted traditional herbs which has no dosage in the treatment of malaria to avoid complication that may lead to death. He, however, described Igwe Onyido as a pillar of the society whose contribution could not be measured and urged him to continue to do more, saying that Ananmbra state would be at its rightful place in the country because according him the state has been doing well in all sphere. Yakassai said he was in Anambra to attend to an essay competition organized by its member in the state where the winner will go home with one million naira and to also participate in the celebration of World Malaria Day in the state. In his remarks, Igwe Onyido thanked the PSN president and his team for the honour done to him by the visit to his palace, saying that he has known Yakassai since 80s in Kano state where he lived and worked and supported him during his campaign for the office of the President. Igwe Onyido described Yakassai as a humble and easy going man who will lift the society to the greater height and urged him to relax in the state to enjoy because Anambra state has zero crime courtesy of the governor Willie Obiano agenda on security in the state. 