Edo state Deputy Governor, Rt Hon Philip Shaibu has said that the present administration is in a hurry to develop the state,to make life more meaningful to the people. Hon Shaibu made the assertion while interacting with the delegation of Edo Youth Political Vanguard led by comrade Mike Omomila who were in government House on courtesy visit . According to the Deputy Governor, “the present administration has realised the fact that the strength of any  nations lies in the productive age bracket,honest and indeed a responsible leadership. ” The Deputy Governor also remarked that over the years, many people and government have abandoned agriculture and over dependent on oil, adding that this has been largely  responsible for the lack of confidence which is evident in the attitude of the youth  to the extent that some take the risk of looking for solace in countries where they can not get any assistance. He said that the present administration is determined to change the narratives. “we are in a hurry to develop Edo state ,that is why we want to invest in youth empowerment through technical education  and skills acquisition . This is why we encourage our youth to embrace agriculture and the present employment opportunity being provided by the state government.  Edo can not remain a civil service state”, he remarked. The deputy governor, however, urged the group to sensitise and reach out to Edo youths to get themselves registered under the ongoing Edo job scheme. Leader of the delegation, comrade Mike Omomila in his address said their visit was to intimate the Deputy Governor with their activities and to pledge their loyalty and support to the government. He commended the state government for ongoing reforms in revenue collection and the youth employment programme aside its resolve to encourge agriculture and industralisation in the state. Meanwhile, the Deputy Governor also received the executive members of Cow Dealers and Butchers Association of Nigeria, Benin-City,  who also paid him a courtesy visit in Government House, Benin . The group, led by its chairman, Comrade Yahaya Idris said their visit was to congratulate and pledge their support for the present administration. Hon Shaibu commended the association and the entire Hausa community in the state over their peaceful coexistence with the indigenes of the state,urging them to sustain the cordial relationship. He said the present government is playing a lot of emphasis on agriculture and youth employment, urging the Hoysa community in the state to key into it   