Wife of the Governor of Anambra State, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano, has said that she would sustain partnership with the Church on empowerment of women. The governor’s wife made the pledge, on Sunday, at the Thanksgiving Service to close the 10th Diocesan Women’s Conference of Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion)‎ Diocese of Mbamili held at St. Andrew’s Anglican Church, Mmiata Anam, Anambra West Local Government Area. Mrs. Obiano, who is founder of Caring Family Enhancement Initiative (CAFÉ), a nongovernmental, non-partisan, non-religious organization, engaged in the training and empowerment of women especially indigent widows and the less privileged, commended the Mbamili diocesan women for embarking on the construction of a skills acquisition training center. According to her, “I am happy to note that your efforts are in line with the programmes of CAFÉ by ensuring that women of communities in this area are trained to become self-reliant and able to assist their husbands with the family upkeep. It is no longer convenient to act stay-at-home-mother, rather get involved by earning an income. It will not only earn you income but also boost your self-confidence.” Mrs. Obiano explained that the Obiano administration is focused on developing all parts of the state with emphasis on the industrial and agrarian communities to ensure that agricultural products are evacuated. She also assured the congregation that their requests with respect to roads will be brought to the attention of the governor. Earlier in a sermon, the Bishop of Mbamili Diocese, Rt. Rev Henry Okeke said that the theme of the conference: “Women as co-labourers with God”, vests responsibility on the women to always trust God in all they do and work for the good and progress of the community. Bishop Okeke called on Christians in the area to embrace education as a way out for the future, warning that like Mary Magdalene in the Bible people will castigate and carry smear campaigns; warning: “don’t allow anyone to annoy you and make you revert to old ways.” Bishop Henry Okeke commended governor Obiano for good governance which according to him confirms that when the righteous is on the throne the people rejoice. He also called for proper assessment of the utilization of the N20m Community Choose-Your-Project initiative before handing out the second batch to avoid abuse. Speaking, President of the Women ministry of Mbamili Diocese and wife of the Bishop, Mrs. Julie Okeke, expressed joy that the annual Conference was peaceful and successful and prayed for the success of the Governor and the wife, Osodieme that she may continue in her good work of giving women better lives. The highpoint of the service was the cutting of the Women Conference cake by Mrs. Obiano, the Bishop and wife and other dignitaries in attendance.