From Okey Sampson, Aba Barely 24 hours after the police in Aba, Abia State killed two armed robbers and arrested two others, another dare-devil gang yesterday shot through the city and kidnapped a yet-to-be identified man. Following this, the police and the military have been put on red alert in the commercial city. The robbers had stormed the commercial city at about 5.30pm, shooting sporadically, as they chased a man driving a  red Toyota Camry car from Azikiwe Road, in the heart of the city. The hoodlums caught up with the victim between Pound Road and St. Michael’s Road/Adazi Road, where they reportedly shot him on the leg before taking him away. As the robbers made their escape bid, they shot their way through East Street, forcing residents to scamper for safety. Those who opened for business abandoned their shops and ran for safety. At about 7pm, when residents thought the situation had been brought under control, with the police and soldiers stationed at strategic areas of the city, sporadic shootings again erupted around the Good Morning Market axis of the city. It was gathered that the gunmen appeared again in the area, shooting in all directions. This had forced residents of the area into their houses to avoid being victims, with  Emelogu Road leading to the Good Morning Market from the Ogbor Hill axis deserted. When our correspondent visited the scene of the abduction at about 6:45pm, business owners, who abandoned their shops, were just returning. A lady who operates a restaurant, while expressing happiness that no life was lost, lamented that most of  those who bought things from her before the attack fled without paying. The police last night said one of the robbers was later shot dead and the kidnapped victim released. Meanwhile, the military and police have cordoned off many entry points into Aba and subjecting vehicles to thorough search. On Sunday, two armed robbery suspects were shot dead by a combined team of army and police personnel in Aba. Daily Sun gathered that a gang of suspected armed robbers had snatched a Toyota SUV with registration number, Lagos EPE 568 EM from one David Ogbole and drove towards the city centre. On getting to the Railway Crossing, between Eziukwu/Factory and Aba-Owerri road, the hoodlums were challenged by policemen, who were later joined by some soldiers. The men of the under world opened fired on the police and in the ensuing gun duel that lasted for over 30 minutes, two of the hoodlums were reportedly killed, while two others were arrested. Other gand members escaped. The incident, according to an eyewitness, caused gridlock on the ever-busy Aba-Owerri Road, as motorists abandoned their vehicles and scampered for safety. It took over one hour for free flow of traffic to be restored. Sources at the Aba Area Command said two vehicles used by the hoodlums were recovered by the police, with the help of soldiers. Also recovered from the gang was a locally made pistol with a cartridge. It was gathered that one of the gang members was thereafter arrested, where he was receiving treatment for gunshot injury sustained on his right hand.  