From Noah Ebije, Kaduna Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai  has released  the state security votes and his pay slip to prove  to the  Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara that there was transparency in the management of the financial resources. Dogara had last week in Kaduna challenged el-Rufai to publish his state security votes and local government allocation if he was transparent enough. This  following earlier statement by the governor that the annual budget of the National Assembly was shrouded in secrecy, making Nigerians to doubt its transparency and accountability. The government said it  has spent N4.556 billion on security gadgets. But the details of the 2016 security votes could not be assessed at the referred website  at the time of filling this report. Also, the 2015 security votes could not be  clearly figured out from the websites as the only clean write up headings there was the  “Audited account published in 2015, and the cash flow statement, assets and liabilities.” Governor el-Rufai, in a statement yesterday through his spokesman,  Samuel Aruwan said: “Our attention has been drawn to a challenge by Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, calling on Kaduna State to make public its security votes and local government expenditure. “This challenge was thrown as a response to Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s request to the National Assembly (NASS) to provide further details on the opaque N115 billion 2016 NASS budget. “Malam Nasir el-Rufai welcomes this challenge as a necessary step to improve and strengthen our democracy and would like to respond as follows: The budgets of all state governments in Nigeria are detailed out and presented at least under the headings of: personnel cost, overhead, and  capital expenditure . “This is unlike the budget of the National Assembly which is a single line item of over N100 billion that divulges zero information or details. NASS can at least break down its own single line budget into the hundreds of line items that are detailed in every state government budget in Nigeria. It is disingenuous to respond to every request for transparency by casting aspersions”. EL-rufai stated that the Kaduna State government has consistently made public all its budget details. “In 2016, in an unprecedented step, the state published not only its own budget, but also that of all the 23 local government councils online: www.openkaduna.com.ng website. “The local government budgets provide details of the recurrent and capital spending of every single LG in a transparent manner. The proposed 2017 LG Budgets, currently before the State Assembly, are also already online on the same website, and on www.kdsg.gov.ng. Approved state budgets 2016-2017 can be found on http://openkaduna.com.ng/Budget/approved-budget. We invite the Right Honourable Speaker to download and peruse at his pleasure”. The governor said if the Speaker had taken the pain to run an online search he would have discovered the details of our spending priorities of the state on security, which he said are directed on justice, technology, community engagement and support to security agencies. The 2017 budget, he said, details specific amounts: “N1.5 billion for the procurement and installation of CCTV cameras for monitoring and surveillance towards reducing criminal activities within the metropolis; N193 million for procurement of geo-position interceptor and location of GSM UMTS system to check the trends and intercept/locate kidnappers’ GSM calls, N265 million for the procurement of drones/unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) to identify locations of armed bandits in our forest reserves across the state and the establishment of a forensic laboratory to assist in determining substantial evidence in cases that otherwise proved difficult in the past.” “In addition, N2.6 billion is allocated in 2017 to support the network of federal security agencies in Kaduna with communications, logistics and materiel. “Details of actual spending in 2015 for security and indeed every line item in the state budgets are also publicly available via the annual report of the Accountant-General accessible on www.kdsg.gov.ng. “The 2015 accounts of the Kaduna State Government have been audited, and the audit summary published in major newspapers and on the state website on 21st June 2016. The Accountant-General’s report for 2016 has been finalized and its audit is ongoing and will be published as usual. The audited state government accounts can also be found on http://openkaduna.com.ng/Budget/audited. “The Kaduna State government will continue to remain transparent and open in all its finances. That is what we have promised to all our people and that is what our party, the APC and our president stand for. Malam Nasir El-Rufai is today making publicly available his pay-slip as Governor of Kaduna State. In February 2017, the Kaduna State Government paid the Governor a net salary of N470,521.74, with the following details: income, deductions, basic salary, N185,308.75, hardship allowance N370,617.50, gross pay N555,926.25 “PAYE N85,404.51, total deduction N85,401.51, net pay N470,521.74. “The amount may appear puny but it reflects what the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission approved as the salary and allowances of every State Governor adjusted to reflect provision in-kind of accommodation and transportation. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai would like to reiterate his call for the NASS leadership to do the same and disclose the details of the National Assembly budget, and the salaries and allowances of its leadership. “The call to #OpenNASS is not a personal one. It is one which the leadership of the National Assembly owes to all Nigerians. It is therefore disingenuous for the Speaker to use State Government budgets as the excuse for the opacity of the NASS budget. “In 2016, the NASS budget for its 469 members was larger than thecapital budget of Kaduna State, with close to 10 million inhabitants. It is also larger than the entire budget of several Nigerian States. Indeed, over the past ten years from 2008, the NASS as an institution has cost the country over a trillion naira without any detail on how this amount was allocated and spent. “There is no state government in Nigeria with a budget nearly as opaque as that of NASS. In March 2016, this National Assembly, led by its Chairman, promised to provide a detailed breakdown of the National Assembly budget. Nigerians are waiting”.