A Badagry cultural group, Gunuvi Heritage Association, says it  plans to plant 2000 seedlings of coconut around heritage sites in Badagry, as part of its contributions to the Lagos @ 50 celebrations. The President of the association, Mr. Doheto Mesi, said in Badagry, on Monday, that the move was aimed at replacing trees that were felled or are old. According to him, “Badagry is an ancient town and it is known for its various heritage sites; it is also rich with coconut plantation. “As part of our contributions to celebrate Lagos at 50, we decided to plant 2000 seedlings of coconut around the city to boost its tourism status, as well as replace trees that we have lost. “Badagry used to supply coconut to the country and other parts of West Africa, but over time, that has reduced. “This is due to many factors; so, we are planting coconut seedlings which will also be a kind of beautification for the city. “We are also organising a festival called the Agunkest Festival which will take place on April 17; it will serve as form of enlightenment on the economic and environmental benefits of coconuts,’’ he said. Mesi also urged people to eat coconut regularly. “Coconut has several health benefits, so people should eat it daily to improve their health. “It is also a wonder cash crop; its importance, potency and relevance should not be underestimated,’’ he said. Lagos State was created on 27, May 1967, according to the State Creation and Transitional Provisions Decree No. 14 of 1967, which restructured Nigeria into a federation of 12 states from its former three regions. Badagry, which is traditionally known as Gbagle , is a coastal town and local government area in  Lagos State. It is situated between the city of Lagos and Seme Border, a settlement in Nigeria on the border with Benin Republic. Badagry, which is a major tourism location in Lagos, holds the relics of the history of slave trade. The Lagos State Government had, on Saturday, formally flagged off the opening ceremony of the activities marking the commencement of the full-scale Golden Jubilee anniversary celebration of the State. It  opened the final lap of activities with a musical play, Wakaa, at the newly-refurbished privately-owned theatre, Terra Kulture, in Victoria Island. (NAN) 