From Kemi Yesufu, Abuja The House of Representatives ad hoc committee investigating the alleged corruption, malpractices and breach of due process in the award of OPL 245 is seeking a detailed investigation into the role played by former President Goodluck Jonathan in the controversial deal, Daily Sun has learnt. The Rasak Atunwa-led committee, in its report, recommended that Jonathan, as the country’s leader at the time the Federal Government tried to settle the controversy around the deal, should explain what led to the payout of $1.1 billion on the Malabu deal. Daily Sun also gathered that the committee is recommended that the ex-president be given an opportunity to explain his role in the approval of the April 2011 Agreement which was used as the legal basis for “resolution” on which the $1.1 billion was paid. The committee is also asking for the prosecution of former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Mrs. Diezani Allison-Madueke for her role in the deal.  This was as Mrs Alison-Madueke was recommended for prosecution on the grounds that the transfer of the fund was approved through an escrow account allegedly opened by herself and former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Muhammed Adoke, through two Nigerian banks (names withheld). Others recommended for prosecution by the ad hoc committee include Adoke who, allegedly, drafted the agreement and, also, argued that the payment was in the interest of the Nigerians; Mr. Abubakar Alleel, who was said to have acted as a conduit through which the money was disbursed; SHELL/ENI/NAE, for their role in the fraud, particularly, as they were already facing investigations on the issue abroad and Olusegun Aganga, former Finance Minister. Meanwhile, a Federal High Court in Abuja, yesterday, granted the request by the Federal government to have its witnesses in the trial of seven suspected Boko Haram members who killed 11 foreign nationals in 2012 shielded from the public. The suspects; Mohammed  Usman,  popularly known as Khalid Al-barnawi and leader of Boko Haram splinter group known as Jama’atu Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladis Sudan, also known as ANSARU, Mohammed Bashir Saleh, Umar Mohammed Bello, popular as Abu Azzan, Mohammed Salisu also known as Datti, Yakubu  Nuhu, popular as  Bello Maishayi, Usman Abubakar also known as Mugiratu and Halima Haliru (F). They were said to have between 2011 and 2013, at Sokoto, Kebbi, Bauchi, Borno Gombe and other states in the northern part of Nigeria engaged in act of terrorism. They were arraigned on 11-count charges of conspiracy, terrorism and murder pleaded not guilty to the charges. Earlier, the prosecution team led by Shaibu Labaran had prayed the court that identity of prosecution witnesses should not be disclosed while the public should be barred from covering the trial. He also sought in the application for witnesses to be addressed with pseudo names. The judge reserved ruling till April 25.