After 35 years of marriage   blessed with two daughters, Mr. Momodu Abu, 70, on Wednesday, pleaded with an Igando Customary Court in Lagos State to dissolve his marriage to Saidat, 57, his wife. Momodu had alleged that Saidat was into fetish practice. “My wife is fetish; I came back from work one day and discovered that a portion within my compound had been cemented. “I was curious to know what was buried inside the ground, so I called my people and we dug the ground and saw a charm buried there. “My wife wanted to kill me so that she can inherit my property,’’ Abu said. The 70-year-old businessman presented pictorial evidence of the buried but later excavated charm; which he alleged, was the handiwork of his wife. He said that his wife was no longer cooking for him nor was she washing his clothes. “My wife cannot do any house chore; I am married but living like a single man, I can no longer tolerate her,’’ he said. He also accused his wife of inscribing, “This house is not for sale’’ notice on the wall of his house without his consent. The petitioner urged the court to dissolve the marriage, saying he was fed up. However, the respondent, Saidat, alleged that her husband did not only commit adultery but incest. “My husband was having an affair with my sister; she aborted two pregnancies for him. “I decided not to fight him in order to save my marriage,’’ she said. Saidat, mother of two daughters, also described her husband as a wicked and callous man. “My husband took me to one hospital where he connived with the doctor to remove my womb so that I will not be pregnant again. “After destroying my womb; he is now telling me that he wanted to marry another woman, so that he can have a son that will inherit his property. “He also told me he wanted to sell our house so that he can settle our daughters and rent an apartment for me before he moves on with his life’’. The 57-year-old trader, however, begged the court not to grant her husband’s request, saying she was still in love with him. “Who will marry me now after my husband has destroyed my womb? Please do not grant his request,’’ she said. The court’s president, Mr. Adegboyega Omilola, however, reconciled the couple and advised them to keep the peace in their marriage and be law abiding. (NAN)