From Fred Ezeh & Susan Obaje, Abuja Registrar, Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, has reaffirmed his commitment to the course of delivering quality and credible tertiary institutions admission examination otherwise called the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). He maintained that he would, henceforth dissipate less energy in responding to criticisms particularly from people who have low understanding of the workings of JAMB or choose to be mischievous in their judgment, but focus such energy in the task ahead. He spoke with journalists shortly before the commencement of technical training for JAMB and non-JAMB officials to be deeply involved in 2017 UTME, which would commence with rescheduled mock examination this weekend. He explained that the technical training had become important to acquaint the officials with the last minute changes that might have been introduced or reviewed preparatory for successful UTME bill for May. Oloyede said: “I have decided to complain less and work more. Reason being that the Federal Government never appointed me JAMB registrar to give excuses but to proffer solutions to problems and build a solid JAMB that posterity would benefit from. “I expect all other stakeholders involved in the system not to sabotage the efforts of the board but reciprocate such gesture and goodwill so that we could give Nigerians the best of services they deserve. “I do not expect full perfection from all the system. There would be saboteurs that might work against us and that was why we have plans A, B and C, in addition to several other backups in case any of our plan fails. At the end of the day, it would be said of me that I have done my best.” He announced that the recently suspended mock Computer Base Test (CBT) examination would hold in the 633 CBT centres on Saturday. The mock CBT was to hold on April 8, 2017, but suspended due to “technical issues” that might doubt the credibility of the exercise. “But we have identified those technical hitches and quickly made necessary correction and tighten loose nuts. As a matter of fact, a trial mock was conducted last week in 10 states and the exercise was 99 percent successful,” Oloyede explained. The mock exams was introduced by JAMB as opportunity for candidates particularly those not conversant with computers to acquaint themselves with the CBT so as to stand a better chance of securing admissions.