Second Republic President Shehu Shagari, has advocated increased and adequate funding for the National Open University of Nigeria ( NOUN). Shagari spoke on Monday in Sokoto when the institution’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abdallah Adamu, paid him a courtesy call. ” I am extremely happy that a university I established in 1983 has blossomed into a mega-university, with students’ population of over 250,000. ” The institution therefore needs more funds to conduct its commendable activities, as well as sustain its status of the largest university in Africa. ” I must also commend the management of the institution for working relentlessly to provide education to all classes of Nigerians, including the vulnerable citizens like prison inmates.” Adamu had earlier commended the former president for his vision to establish the university in 1983. According to him,” it provides Nigerians of all classes opportunity to acquire qualitative higher education. ” The former president deserves commendation for his vision to establish the NOUN, which had provided millions of Nigerians access to affordable education. ” We are also assisting prison inmates to acquire free higher education, as part of their reformation process.” Speaking at a separate courtesy call on Gov. Aminu Tambuwal, Adamu said that the World Bank had,” bought into the NOUN. ” The bank has made funds available to sponsor vulnerable and indigent Nigerians in the university. ” The admission of the would-be beneficiaries will, however, be facilitated by the states. ” Regrettably, none of the states have availed its people of such idling funds and I am happy that Sokoto State has promised to be the first state to do so.” Responding, Tambuwal said that he was proud to be associated with the university, saying,” it is greatly helping in manpower development in Nigeria.” The governor also noted that the institution was providing equal opportunities to all classes of Nigerians to acquire higher education. ” The university is providing such opportunities to even retirees and other senior citizens of Nigeria. ” Former President Olusegun Obasanjo does not hide his joy of being an alumnus of the NOUN.” The governor also directed the Secretary to the State Government to immediately provide a land for the construction of the permanent site of the study centre of the university in the state. (NAN) 