By Olakunle Olafioye A group, Niger Delta Youth Coalition, has raised the alarm over the plot to rid the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS) of personnel who are of Niger-Delta origin.
This is contained in a letter to the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr. Maikanti Kacalla Baru.
The letter dated 23rd December, 2016 and jointly signed by the national coordinator of the group, Aniebet Nsikan​​​​​​  and its national secretary,  Peretou Daniel accused an unnamed top hierarchy of NAPIMS of being behind the plot.
The letter reads in part:  “We write to bring to your attention for urgent intervention the conspiracy by a member of the top hierarchy of NAPIMS to transfer Niger Delta indigenes out of NAPIMS,  to frustrate them out of NNPC, and ensure that only their preferred candidates who are mostly from the Northern part of the country dominate the oil and gas services business of the Nigerian economy.  This top brass of who is an ethnic jingoist together with other top hierarchy are responsible for all the rots in NAPIMS, especially the award of single source contracts without due process to their fronts with whom they share proceeds.
“They are desperately trying to blame others for these breaches of extant laws and the procurement act,” the group alleged.
The group warned that failure to nip the plot in the bud could ignite a major crisis. “ If their conspiracy against Niger Delta indigenes is not checked, it may ignite agitation that will dent the good impression you have created in your short stay as GMD NNPC.
“As we speak this top brass has compiled names of mostly Niger Delta indigenes for transfer out of NAPIMS and forwarded same to the GED E&P for implementation. Unknown to the GED the names are mostly from the South-south and Niger Delta.
“It is curious that this is happening in a supposed change government without regard to implication of such actions to the fragile peace in the Niger Delta. We have no doubts that if this is not stopped, it is capable of exacerbating the crisis in Niger Delta.
“Reactions are still fresh in the Niger Delta over the recent appointment of Mr. Tikare T.Y Danjuma as the Coordinator of Niger Delta Water Ways Security when there are very capable, qualified and competent Niger Deltans to handle this task. All these are indeed too much for us to bear given our stake in the oil and gas industry in Nigeria.
“We therefore request that you intervene and halt this obvious marginalization. We wish to emphasize that if there is any need for a reform in NAPIMS then it should start with the top management,” the Niger Delta Youth Coalition said.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 