The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has denied claims that some politicians are sponsoring its struggle for the freedom of Biafra. The group said reports making ground that the group’s activities are being sponsored by some Nigerian politicians are false and baseless. A statement signed by the IPOB spokespersons, Emma Nmezu and Clifford Iroanya, said the reports showcased the prominence of brown envelope journalism in Nigeria. Condemning such, IPOB said,: “To set the records straight, one of the cardinal rules in IPOB is that we don’t mingle with politicians nor do we accept any monetary gift or inducement from any politician.” The group said politicians have also found it difficult to entice the group and its members with either money or gifts. Nmezu said: “IPOB is a global mass-movement that no single individual is capable of funding because we are in over 100 countries and territories all over this earth.” “Who in their right mind in Nigerian politics can afford what it takes to fund IPOB we ask?” the group asked. Nmezu further said it depends on monthly contributions and free will donations by dedicated members of the group to sustain the activities of IPOB. “IPOB depends on monthly contributions of dedicated family members all over the world for its sustenance. We do not have moneybags nor do we have politicians among us with bags of money to sponsor our activities and never will. It will constitute an insult to the memory of our fallen heroes and departure from our principled stance should IPOB seek to accept the engagement of politicians in our activities,” Nmezu added. Also releasing a video, the IPOB accused the leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign state of Biafra (MASSOB) Raphael Uwazurike and the group of collecting monetary gifts and items from politicians. The IPOB said MASSOB collected N3 million and 50 bags of rice from a former governor of Imo State, Ikedi Ohakim. Nmezu said the gifts were collected to support Ohakim in his campaign for gubernatorial election in Imo state. “We reiterate that IPOB under the leadership of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has no dealings with any politician. We throw a challenge via this press statement that if there is any politician who claims that he or she has donated a dime to IPOB funds let that person come out and provide the evidence in secret to Punch Newspaper. “We are aware that there are mushroom organizations who append IPOB to their name in order to get gratifications from politicians. Some of them have even signified their intention to abandon the quest for Biafra restoration and venture into Nigerian politics, using the upcoming gubernatorial election in Anambra state as a launch pad. “In IPOB, we are cognizant of the fact that Schedule-7 of the General Abdulsalami-written Constitution is a show-stopper for any Biafran who engages in Nigerian politics. It is practically impossible to continue with Biafra restoration process with Schedule-7 still in existence in Nigerian Constitution. “The reason is that every Nigerian politician must subscribe to Schedule-7 of the Constitution before assuming any office. We therefore warn the public to note that our name is simply Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), no additions, no subtractions. “Any organisation with any alphabet before or after IPOB in their name is not the same mighty IPOB led by Nnamdi Kanu that the whole world is talking about. “Uwazuruike a.k.a Ifeajuna instead was the person that collected money from politicians to fund MASSOB. “Biafra restoration is a divine project whose time has come, and Chukwu Okike Abiama has ordained that it must come to pass. “For us it remains Biafra or Death!!! 