Killing, prelude to Nigeria’s break up,says group From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Founder of the Movement  for the Actualisation of the Sovereign States of Biafra (MASSOB) and the Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike said the massacre of Christians in Kaduna by suspected Fulani herdsmen was a prelude to the break up of the nation. He said President Muhammadu Buhari should stop playing the ostrich and conduct a sovereign national conference. In a statement  yesterday  by the Director of Information of the movement, Sunny Okereafor, Uwazuruike said  it had become imperative for the President to convoke a national sovereign conference following the ongoing crisis in Kaduna State and earlier disturbances by various pressure groups kicking against marginalisation of their zones. Uwazuruike described the upheavals in Kaduna, where over 800 people have been killed as a manifestation of a diseased nation. He said it was part of the reasons they have consistently asked for the independence of Ndigbo. “I have been calling for sovereign national conference since 1999 when I started the struggle but nobody listened to me. Now, look at the crisis in the Niger Delta, the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East and now the planned massacre in southern Kaduna. “This is an indication that all is not well with the country and it is now imperative for the President to stop playing the ostrich and convoke a national conference to save the country from violent break up.” The MASSOB leader, however, appealed to Ndigbo to remain calm, assuring that the “much awaited time” for the independence of Biafra was almost at hand. He added that the 18th anniversary of MASSOB coming up on May 22 may usher in the dream of Ndigbo.   Kaduna massacre: Prelude to break up of Nigeria- MASSOB From GEORGE ONYEJIUWA,OWERRI The founder of the Movement  for the Actualisation of the Sovereign States of Biafra (MASSOB) and the Biafra Independent Movement, Chief Ralph Uwazuruike said the massacre of Christians in Kaduna by suspected Fulani herdsmen is a prelude to the break up of the nation. He said President Muhammadu Buhari should stop playing the ostrich and immediately conduct sovereign national conference. In a statement  yesterday  by the Director of Information of the movement, Sunny Okereafor, Uwazuruike pointed out that it has become imperative for the President to convoke a national sovereign conference following the ongoing crisis in Kaduna State and earlier disturbances by various pressure groups kicking against marginalisation of their zones. Uwazurike described the upheavals in Kaduna where over 800 people have been killed as a manifestation of a diseased nation and why Ndigbo have consistently asked for the independence of Ndigbo from the suffocating Nigeria Federation. “ I have been calling for sovereign national conference since 1999 when I started the struggle but nobody listened to me, now, look at the crisis in the Niger Delta, the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East and now the planned massacre in southern Kaduna. This is an indication that all is not well with the country and it is now imperative for the President to stop playing the ostrich and convoke a national conference to save the country from violent break up.” The MASSOB leader, however, appealed to Ndigbo to remain calm, assuring that the “much awaited time” for the independence of Biafra is almost at hand. He added that the 18th anniversary of MASSOB coming up on May 22 may usher in the dream of Ndigbo.