From Abdullahi Hassan, Zaria The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Zaria Branch,  has  condemned the recurrent abduction, forceful conversion and marrying- off  an  under aged Christians girls by  some people in the state. Last year , a  teenage  Christian girl  was forcefully  converted to  another  religion and got her  married  to a young man without the consent of the her parent, later  father drag the  them  to  Sabon Gari area Court in Zaria. The group’s chairman, Rev. Abau M. Gadzma, stated this at the Grand final 2017 Universal week of Prayer with Theme: Lord Send Help Again, on Sunday in Zaria. “ It is  becoming so alarming the rate at which under aged Christian girls are abducted , focefull converted and are married off without parental consent’’. According him, the act  is contrary to 1999 constitution as amended and the panel code of Kaduna state  which  defines that any one less than 18 years of aged as minor and her parents must be consented before get her  married. However, the Association expressed dismay over  denial  of Christians  rights to build Churches in some part of the states noting that  the action  was  contrary to section 38 of the 1999 constitution that guarantee freedom of religious and worship’. “How do we enjoy this religious freedom when we do not have places of worship,’’ Association said. CAN  maintained  that every Nigerian ought to be treated equally especially when issues of faith , worship and religion are involved“ Nigeria belong to all of us  whether Yoruba, Hausa, igbo, Christian or Muslims’’. The chairman also described  treatment of Christians in some institution of higher learning in the state as sad and undesirable  “Christians are given admission but treated like foreigners befitting a gesture in a Foreign land’’. On the  Kaduna state 2016 controversial Religious  Bill, CAN said  the bill has violated section 38 of the 1999 constitution of the federal Republic of Nigeria. “For any attempt to infringe on people rights to worship may be breach  distrust , fear and may be seen as intimidation’’. chairman said. Speaking on  Southern  Kaduna crises, Association Chairman said since the state governor  had paid  compensation to  Fulani headsmen to stop destroying lives and property in the area, there was need for  state government to announced  the names of the beneficiaries who faulted to end the killings of innocent  lives. However, the Association hailed the federal government  effort  to revamp economy, and fights against  Corruption“ We call  federal government to draw  up implementable practical and realistic economic policies that will pull us out of economic recession ; cushion  hard core realities of job losses, unemployment , depreciation ‘’. 