Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has alleged that the police high command dismissed the six policemen attached to him because they refused to allow the security agencies execute their plot of assassinating him. Speaking when he received the Aluu Council of Chiefs at the Government House, Port Harcourt yesterday, Wike alleged that there was a plan by the security agencies to assassinate him, but his security details resisted  the execution of the evil plot. He said: “The policemen were dismissed because they did not allow the security agencies to assassinate me as was planned. “The security agencies planned to assassinate me, but those attached to me resisted the plot and refused to allow them kill me. That is why they are angry and desperate.” The governor said he would continue to defend the interest of the state, noting that he would never plead with the security agencies to stop their illegal activities. He said the fraudulent invasion of Rivers State by the security agencies during the last rerun elections was a wake up call for the people to be prepared for the rigging of elections in 2019 by the same security agencies. “The security agencies, by their actions on December 10, 2016 rerun elections, alerted us on how they plan to rig the 2019 elections. We are now prepare for them,” Wike said. He commended the Aluu community for cooperating with the government to tackle cultism in the area. He said the peaceful nature of the area had led to improved execution of projects for the people. The governor said his administration would develop different communities in line with the pledge to the people. He said it was unfortunate that the immediate past All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in the state failed to develop communities adjoining Port Harcourt, despite the funds available to it. Earlier, Chairman of the Aluu Council of Chiefs, Chief Kenneth Wobunwo lauded Governor Wike for the state burial accorded their son, Captain Elechi Amadi. He also commended him for renaming the former Port Harcourt Polytechnic as Elechi Amadi Polytechnic. The Aluu leaders further thanked the governor for constructing the major road to the area.