From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Matron of Nigerian Red Cross Society Motherless Babies Home, Nnewi North Local Government Area of Anambra State, Mrs Virginia Okafor has expressed gratitude to organizations, groups and individuals from within and outside Nnewi who have been making ceaseless donations to ensure the up-keep of the inmates and enable them join others to enjoy the Christmas and the New Year.
The matron expressed her feelings recently when Diamond Friends Club of Nsukka visited the home with varieties of items, including bags of rice, beverages, noodles, pampers and toiletories, which were presented to the home by the officials of the club.
She said babies at the home were always brought by men whose wives died after delivery who could not nurse the babies because of some challenges.
The matron told the visitors that the home currently had 18 inmates, saying that their fathers came to reclaim them when they became of age after signing necessary documents as required by law.
Mrs Okafor, however, identified non-availability of a vehicle to move around as one of the major challenges facing the home.
She said promises made by some organizations and individuals with respect to the means of transportation for the home had not been met.
“A lot of people come here, especially those who are seeking the face of God. People from various places visit us here not only during festivities, but on other times. You know anything you do for these motherless babies attracts reward from God because they are wonderful creatures. Their cries touch God in a great dimension. Some of the people who come here include footballers, people seeking the fruit of the womb and others for various favours from God. Others use the opportunity to thank God for what He has done for them. Government cannot do it alone,” she said.
Explaining why the club visited, Chairman of Diamond Friends Club of Nsukka, Mr Nnaemeka Ugwuanyi said the club did that annually, visiting destitute homes, motherless babies and the less privileged in society as part of its social responsibilities.
Mr Ugwuanyi noted that it would be a disservice to humanity for privileged individuals, groups and organizations to neglect those who needed help.
According to him, one’s wealth is meaningless if no portion of it is set aside to bring succour to the less privileged in the society.
He noted that members of the public are the last hope of the motherless babies and other inmates at various destitute homes.
“Why should people relax at their various homes to enjoy themselves, especially during this festive period without stopping a while to think about this class of people in our society. It is our appeal that people should see reason to support these less privileged in any dimension,” Mr Ugwuanyi said.
Other executive members of the club during the visit were Mr Ezemma Abuchi, secretary; Mr Agbo Darlington; Mr Abonyi K. Godwin; Emma Chuks and Agbo Kingsley. 