•Pay tributes to fallen heroes From Iheanacho Nwosu, Abuja, Laide Raheem, Abeokuta, Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin Kebbi, Emmanuel Ulayi Some State governors and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, paid glowing tributes to the nation’s fallen heroes who died in active service in defence of the country just as they commended the men and officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces for their gallantry and successes, so far, in the fight against the Boko Harm insurgency.
Speaking on the occasion of this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day,  Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun thanked the military for restoring peace in the North-East region of the country and urged all Nigerians to live in unity, irrespective of differences in gender, tribe, religion and political affiliation.
Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State urged all Nigerians,
irrespective of tribes and religions, to embrace peace in their locations.
Bagudu said he had participated in Congo war and the Nigeria civil war as a soldier, stressing that “Nigerians must respect the fallen heroes who died for the unity of the nation.”
Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State expressed gratitude to the country’s fallen heroes who died in active service for the country.
He described their sacrifices for the country as a remarkable commitment that would never be forgotten, stressing, “the legacy of their death has remained a great strength for the country.”
“For this, their commitment and strong faith in Nigeria will never be betrayed as all Nigerians are very grateful for their sacrifice to their beloved fatherland,” Ayade said.
Former Vice President and chieftain of All Progressives Congress, Atiku Abubakar  praised what he called the patriotic sacrifices of the military personnel in the defence of the country.
In a statement released by his media office, yesterday, Atiku observed that “since the end of the civil war in 1970, members of our armed forces have not faced greater challenges than today in the face of counterterrorism war against the Boko Haram insurgents.”
“Laying down one’s life for the sake of others is the highest sacrifice; these officers and men are driven by sheer patriotism and love of fellow citizens,” he said.