There was excitement in Enugu following the appointment of Uwakwe Azikiwe, son of the former premier of the Eastern Region and Nigeria’s first president, late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, as special adviser on Special Duties, by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.
Ugwuanyi had, during the introduction of past leaders of the Eastern Region, East Central States, old Anambra State, old Enugu State and the present Enugu State to the American Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington, at the Government House, Enugu, disclosed that he recently appointed Zik’s son as a special adviser.
Ugwuanyi said he made the appointment in recognition of the contributions of Zik whom he described as the undisputed icon of Nigerian nationalism to the state, the Igbo nation and the country at large.
Uwakwe is an American-trained lawyer, who was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2005.
He attended Lincoln University and University of Baltimore School of Law, both in the United States of America and until his recent appointment, was a pioneer staff of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC).
The new adviser thanked Ugwuanyi “for the honour and privilege to serve my state of birth” and pledged to work towards the actualisation of the vision of the governor to take Enugu State to the next level.
Reacting to the development, a cross-section of Enugu residents hailed Governor Ugwuanyi for the rare gesture, which they said deserved the commendation of the public.
A resident of Ogui in Enugu,  Alphonsus Ugwu noted that Ugwuanyi is the first governor from the South East geo-political zone in particular and the nation in general to appoint Zik’s child into government position, describing it as a welcome development that should be emulated by other leaders.
Mike Uzoigwe disclosed that Ugwuanyi has, by the recent appointment demonstrated his strong belief in merit and reward for excellence. He said he (Ugwuanyi )  was the only governor from the South East zone since 1999 that has officially visited  the Nsukka residence of late Dr. Azikiwe to identify with his family, and equally informed them of the state government’s plan to rehabilitate and turn  Zik’s official residence in Enugu (as the Premier of the Eastern Region) into a tourist centre.
He added that Zik paid the ultimate price for the development and unity of the country and his family deserved recognition of our leaders.