From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye and Fred Itua, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari left Abuja yesterday for the United Kingdom. He would be away for 18 day during which he is expected to undergo routine medical checkups. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said in a statement that it was part of his annual vacation. The president is expected to resume work on February 6. He said in line with Section 145 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the President of the Senate and Speaker, House of Representatives, have been duly communicated. “While away, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will perform the functions of the Office of the President,” the statement said. This would be his third medical trip abroad in about 20 months. Buhari had  first gone for medical treatment between February 5-10 and  the second (for ear, throat and nose infection) June 6-19 all in 2015. Buhari’s letter reads: “In compliance with section 145(1) of the 1999 constitution, I want to inform the distinguished Senate that I will be away on a ten-day working day short vacation as part of my 2017 annual leave from Monday 23rd January to Monday 6th February 2017. “And while I am away, the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, will perform the functions of my office. Please accept Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” The letter however did not indicate if the vacation will be within Nigeria or is to be spent outside the country. But at the time of this report, his convoy was being lined up for departure to the airport. Osinbajo currently in Davos for the World Economic Summit who had to cut short his trip is expected back in the country today. At about 11am, yesterday, when news broke that President Buhari had written the Senate that he was proceeding on vocation cum medical checkup, the presidential convoy was already lining up at his residence in the presidential Villa. At about noon, when the first lady, Aisha was receiving Melinda Gate, co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in the Conference Room of her office,  stewards were seen in front of the residence moving bags and other valuables into luggage vehicle already in the already lined up convoy. By 12.21 pm when Mrs. Buhari’s event ended, Daily Sun observed that the convoys were all set to leave the Presidential Villa for the airport. At 1pm, the presidential convoy carrying presidential aides and security operatives left for the Presidential wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport. President Buhari departed the Presidential Villa shortly after aboard the Presidential Chopper from the helipad located in the Villa. The President departed the country at 2pm.