Sultan  cautions against inflammatory comments From Sola Ojo, Kaduna The United Nations has begun investigation of the attacks and killings in Southern Kaduna. UN Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial, Summary or Arbitrary Executions, Dr. Agnes Callamard, confirmed this development to the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP). “Dr. Callamard has confirmed she is probing recent allegations of killings of over 800 citizens, mostly women, children and the elderly, in Southern Kaduna, by suspected herdsmen, and to identify the perpetrators and bring them to justice, and to provide reparations to victims,” according to a statement by SERAP Executive Director, Adetokunbo Mumuni, yesterday. This followed a December 30, 2016, petition SERAP sent to Dr. Callamard. SERAP urged Callamard to prevail on the federal government authorities to: take measures to urgently secure the right to life, right to security and dignity of the human person and right to property of citizens in Southern Kaduna, and to prevent further attacks and killings by herdsmen and other unknown perpetrators Meanwhile, Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III has cautioned interest groups and individuals to stop making inflammatory statements that can jeopardise peace efforts in Southern Kaduna. The Islamic leader also called on Muslims all over the country to intensify prayers for the restoration of peace and security in the geo-political zone. He also called for calm, restraint, and urged the people to eschew bitterness and discard all forms of hate speeches. The Sultan, in a statement issued by JNI Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu lamented what he described as “ugly developments of accusations and counter-accusations from religious leaders,” which he said can lead to un-ending conflict. “The National Headquarters of Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) painstakingly notes with concern, the unfortunate sectarian violence which bedevilled Southern Kaduna for quite sometime now and it has monitored events relating to the unfortunate serial killings, as they unfolded. “More worrisome was the ineptitude and pettiness from some religious leaders, and individuals with sinister motives and political undertones alongside intent to foment trouble, and imbalance reportage. While at some quarters, unguarded utterances full of exaggerations, beating the drums of war were the order of the day. “Planting the seed of discord, acrimony, hate speech and unguarded statements, such as; “religious cleansing’’,” systematic genocide through the instrumentality of Islamic fundamentalists…”, “therefore, all Christians are to dress in mourning attire of black clothes or dresses… on January 8, 2017”, “Christians should defend themselves”, and exaggeration of figures of casualties horrendously, etc, are obviously factors that exasperated the crisis. “Thank God, security agencies considered the alleged given figures as mere exaggerations. “Additionally, a formidable Christian group rejected the call of dressing in mourning attire of black clothes. “However, JNI is really worried with these aforementioned and ugly developments of accusations and counter accusations from religious leaders, which could lead to an un-ending conflict. Nonetheless, as always, we reiterate that human life is sacred and should be treated so. spread across Kaura, Sanga, Jama’a and Kauru Local Government Areas where there had been persistent attacks on communities by gunmen believed to be Fulani herdsmen.” SERAP urged Callamard to prevail on the federal government authorities to: take measures to urgently secure the right to life, right to security and dignity of the human person and right to property of citizens in Southern Kaduna, and to prevent further attacks and killings by herdsmen and other unknown perpetrators 2Carry out an effective investigation into the circumstances surrounding the killings and to identify the perpetrators and bring them to justice, and to provide reparations to victims 3Provide a framework of security for the protection of life, and to protect the lives of those individuals at risk from unlawful attacks in Southern Kaduna 4Provide for an effective remedy and reparation for the victims  