Bayelsa State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, on Tuesday, signed into law the Prerogative of Mercy, Revenue Court Amendment and Infrastructure Maintenance Levy Amendment Bills into Law, in a bid to promote good governance. Appending his signature to the bills in Government House, Yenagoa, Governor Dickson said the Revenue Court Amendment and the Infrastructure Levy laws are part of the government’s efforts to shore up the state’s internal generated revenue. According to him, the two laws will go a long way in clarifying the civic responsibilities of the tax-payers, especially corporate organizations, as well as strengthen the mechanisms for enforcement of tax obligations. The Governor, therefore, called on the people of the state and business entities to take the fulfillment of their tax obligations seriously to enable the government deliver on its mandate of providing quality services, particularly in the provision of security. Governor Dickson, who commended the leadership and members of the State House of Assembly for the expeditious passage of the bills, explained that, the Prerogative of Mercy Law has provided the much needed legal authority to grant state pardon to deserving persons.  His words: “The Infrastructure Bill will clarify the tax situation as far as companies and those doing business in Bayelsa are concerned. The second has to do with the Prerogative of Mercy by which we have laid out the modalities that will be followed to enable the governor exercise the Prerogative of Mercy in deserving cases. “The third one is the Revenue Court Bill, which will also strengthen the mechanisms for the enforcement of tax obligations. So, I want to thank the Assembly and remind all Bayelsans that, as I said in my budget speech, the key pillar of our budget this year, moving forward, is enhanced internal revenue generation.” Presenting the bills for the governor’s assent, Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Konbowei Benson said, the three bills were presented to the House late last year, but passed on the 12th and 17th of January this year.