*Coach reprimanded, TM suspended *Kano Pillars awarded 3 points, 3 goals BY JOE APU Organisers of the Nigeria Premier Football League, the League Management Company (LMC) has slammed the sum of N9, 150. 000 as sanctions on FC IfeanyiUbah for abandoning its opening day fixture against Kano Pillars in Kano last Saturday. According to a release from the LMC secretariat, the sanction is to serve as a deterrent to other clubs and to keep the sanity of the league as well as maintain the sponsorship of the league. The statement in the words of the LMC was aimed at deterring further acts that would lead to matches being called off following the incident in Kano. In addition to this, FC IfeanyiUbah is to forfeit 3 points and three goals to Kano Pillars and another eight points if the club is involved in a similar act in the course of the league. A breakdown of the sanctions to the club read, “Consequently, the LMC intends to exercise its summary jurisdiction, taking into cognisance your public apology, forfeiture of three points and three goals accruing from the match, which shall be credited to its opponent – Kano Pillars FC”. “Forfeit three (3) points from the points accruable to the club, the execution of which shall be suspended for a probationary period of the remainder of the season”. “Pay a fine of Three Million Naira only (N3, 000,000.00).” In the second count of hindering and infringing on the broadcast contract, FC IfeanyiUbah is to pay a fine of N5million and will have two points deducted from points accruing to it but which was suspended for a probationary period of the rest of the season. On the third charge of conduct capable of bringing the League to disrepute, in breach of Rule C1.1, the club was fined N1million and another suspended sentence of deductable three points should it be in breach of the same rule for the rest of the season. The sanction further read that “for causing a delay in the re-start of the match after the half-time interval, without good reason, the Club shall pay a fine of One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira only (N150, 000.00).” Club official, Jonathan Igwe was fined N500, 000, suspended from all NPFL match venues for the rest of the season pending the determination of his case by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Ethics Committee while FC IfeanyiUbah’s coach Yaw Preko was charged for breach of Article 6 of code for Managers and Coaches (Appendix B) for failing and or neglecting to take all reasonable steps to ensure that players and other employees under his control accept and observe the authority and decisions of match officials and promote the highest standards on the field of play. For the negligence, the Coach has been reprimanded. Centre referee, Funso Ajayi from Oyo State was referred to the NFF for failing “to meet up with the high standard expected in the Nigeria Professional Football League and exhibiting unsatisfactory game management.” The LMC recommended that Ajayi be withdrawn from consideration for future NPFL matches, pending a full review into her performance.