From Uche Usim, Abuja To ensure smooth takeoff of the Jos Inland Container Depot (ICD), otherwise known as dry port, the Federal Government has announced plans to establish a direct rail link and dual carriage road network from the airport and Jos town to the facility.
Government delegation comprising the Transportation Minister, Chibuike Amaechi, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Hassan Bello and other top officials of the ministry visited the Jos ICD at the weekend to see the extent of work done.
They were conducted round the facility by the the Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, who pledged to ensure that the momentum of work is sustained till completion.
The government delegation was impressed by the determination of the state government to ensure the successful take-off of the project. In his remarks after the facility tour, Amaechi who led the government delegation said described the dry ports as priority projects because of its employment content.
“The Jos dry will create about 250 direct jobs and 600 indirect jobs,  in the first phase. The location of the Jos dry port is good because it is near the Jos Airport and a rail station. So, the connection by rail road and air makes it ideal for multi-modal access.
“I want the the NSC to meet with FAAN to create a road linking the airport to the dry port. The NSC should work with the operators of the dry port and submit to the Ministry the technical specifications of the rail coming into the ports with the financial implication. We’ll discuss with General Electric on the way forward.
“I urge the Plateau State Government to please fence the project, build additional access roads and contribute its equity which is 20 per cent”, Amaechi stated.
Also speaking after the tour, the Executive Secretary of the NSC, Hassan Bello who doubles as the promoter of the ICD projects across the country, told Daily Sun that the project will be the next to commence operations after Kaduna.
Bello said the ICD was 45 per cent completed, pointing out that the Transport Ministry was in talks with General Electric, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), the Works Ministry, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and other relevant stakeholders to ensure direct rail, air and road links to the facility.
“The Jos dry port is well located. It’s located close to the Jos airport and the Jos railway service. So, the rail link needed isn’t long at all. It’s a short distance and so it’s not a very costly project to undertake. The Transport Minister is determined to see the development of our maritime industry. He’s bent on ensuring trade facilitation. He wants to decongest Lagos and open up the economy. Transportation is key and it’s an integral part of local, regional and international trade. This Jos dry port will serve Jos and its environs when operational. They don’t have to come to Lagos or Port Harcourt to clear their cargoes. It comes straight to this facility using road, rail or air. It also has multiplier effects. Jobs are created, revenue is generated for the government and stakeholders. It’ll open up this zone because the hassles in port business will be eliminated.
“Indeed, I’m impressed by the Plateau State government’s enthusiasm. They’re talking about fencing the dry port which is vital. The NSC as a promoter will have a Consultant on site because each dry port must conform to its masterplan and that what our Consultant will ensure”, he stated.
Bello added that the warehouse, offices for various government agencies like NCS, Customs, NDLEA, Quarantine; and stacking area for containers for the Jos ICD were almost completed.
He added that the Ministry of Transportation will pay another visit to the site in June this year.
“I was impressed by what I saw. We’re on course. For the ICDs, all rail requirements are to be submitted to the NSC for necessary action. I’m also happy approved ICD projects responded to our 18-month ultimatum. We had given them up till last December to substantive level on their respective ICD projects or risk revocation and I’m glad they complied. They’re now competeting among themselves which is good. Everyone wants to build the best of ICDs. Funtua and Ibadan are really coming up. The Kaduna ICD has already commenced operations, even though not in full blast. It has started receiving containers. This is the way to make business seamless using efficient transportation and port clearance procedures. Trade facilitation is the focus of the Transportation Ministry”, Bello stated.