From: Sola Ojo, Kaduna Scores of Nigerian youths, on Monday, gathered at the popular Arewa House, in Kaduna, to demand ‘one adult, one youth’ formula in the running of the country. One of them is President, OneAdult OneYouth (OAOY) Initiative, Ene Lilian Ogbole, who during the first annual international conference, in Kaduna, told newsmen that, her organisation was embarking on massive awareness campaign across the country in order to promote meritocracy ahead of monetisation of politics which, she claimed, has disenfranchised many people, especially youths. She maintained that only the youths are capable of effecting positive change in the nation’s polity and economics. According to Ogbole, like the name of the formula implies, mentoring in leadership in this context means bringing adults and youths together on board to work together to move the nation forward. “Our adults, no doubt, have wealth of experience and knowledge they have gathered over the years; the youths have the energy, vibrancy, pragmatism and dynamism to vibrantly and tirelessly carry on the affairs of Nigeria in positive alignment with the constitution of Nigeria. “This will also serve as unprecedented mechanisms for the enhancement of confidence in government. “We are saying categorically that the crystal and pathetic absence of our indomitable youth from the scheme of things is nation – rendering and will incessantly be counter-productive. “The term nation-building or national development is usually raised to refer to a highly constructive process of engaging all citizens in building, social cohesion, economic prosperity and political stability in a nation in manner that is all inclusive and democratic.  “It is imperative to state categorically here and now that youths always and will continue to have the keys to all activities in the world, be it political, war and revolution, engineering, medicines, nursing and lots more. “Youths are not only the leaders of tomorrow but partaker and partners of today, young people”, she argued. Corroborating the above speaker, Vice Executive Chairman, Envoy Hallmark, Nigeria, Akachukwu Igbokwe said, it has became necessary to look inward and bring the youths aboard the affairs of things in the country because a lot of them are doing well in their callings even outside the country. “We are moving from transition to knowledge based economy. It is important campaign like this continues. Our problem is that, most times the youths are not been carried along in the scheme of things despite their huge number and proven ability that they can deliver if right environment is maintained – in INEC and NYSC for example”. In his own view, a Pharmacist and Head, Revolutionary Council of Nigerian People, Okenwa Enyeribe, traced the recent slavery in Lybia, xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa and prostitution in Italy to poor planning by policy makers over the years. He was, however, optimistic that, if Nigeria and Nigerians could shift from money politics to merit politics, many of the problems currently facing the country would disappear naturally.