The November 18 overwhelming renewal of Governor Willie Obiano’s mandate for another term of four years by the electorate demonstrates clearly that  Ndi Anambra have implicit support for the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) administration. That the APGA candidate won in all the 21 local government areas of the state is a strong indication that Ndi Anambra believe that the party is indeed their own and that the governor is doing very well and will continue to do well. Unarguably, APGA has consolidated its hold in Anambra State politics. Willie won because Ndi Anambra believed that his performance so far is good. Apart from being a movement and a way of life in the state, APGA is one of the legacies, their illustrious son, the late Chief Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu, left for them. Even in death, Ojukwu’s image still looms larger in Anambra politics. And it is not going to change in the near future. In eleven unbroken years plus, Anambra people have had a fruitful pact with APGA government and there are no signs that the pact will soon be done away with. Anambra has even gotten a succession plan for the gubernatorial seat to rotate among the three senatorial zones of the state. Obiano’s reelection has tacitly confirmed that Ndi Anambra have fully embraced the zoning arrangement even though it is unwritten. Other Igbo states, that have not embraced zoning, are likely to follow the Anambra example. After Willie Obiano, the baton will automatically shift to Anambra South. The beauty of multiparty democracy is the right to make a choice of where to belong and which candidate to vote into office. In other words, democracy allows the freedom of association and freedom of choice. And that is exactly what the Anambra electorate did on November 18 with their votes in the most keenly contested gubernatorial poll in the history of elections in the state. The voters were able to do so because the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the government in power ensured a level playing field for all the contestants. The Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari provided enough security and ensured that the threatened poll held without any disruption. He should be applauded for his non-interference in the poll. All the security personnel that participated in the poll deserved commendations for a job well done. With Anambra poll, INEC has shown that it can do well in the 2019 general election. The umpire has really demonstrated some level of improvement in the conduct of elections and should be complimented for doing a good job. The renewal of Governor Willie Obiano’s mandate also means more hard work to ensure more development in the state. While efforts should be scaled up to finish all initiated projects, especially the Anambra Airport, new ones should also be given considerable attention. Now that the campaign and election are over, the administration should settle down for governance business. Governor Willie Obiano and his team should hit the ground running and break new records. There should be no room for complacency. Much is still at stake. It will be work, work and work. That is the best way to assure the electorate that their votes really counted. With a focused leadership, Anambra can be turned to a Dubai. It can also be made a manufacturing giant, like those of Asian Tigers. The human and material resources to achieve these abound in the state. Willie should tap them. He should bring some technocrats into his administration to move the state faster to its manifest destiny. Governor Willie Obiano should continue to connect with the people in so many ways as he has done before. He should also prioritize on the welfare of the people of the state and ensure more security of life and property. There is no doubt that Ndi Anambra have spoken with their votes and their decision was respected. Jubilation across the state that trailed the announcement of the poll result showed that the outcome reflected the will and expectations of the people.  That is why congratulatory messages are pouring on the winner. These are not unexpected. But to whom much is given, much is also expected. I strongly believe that Willie will not disappoint Ndi Anambra that gave their all to him when it mattered most. He will not forget that out of 37 people, they cast their lot for him and believed in him. He will repay that labour of love in equal measure with more development projects in all parts of the state. Moving the state to the next level of human and material development should be the duty of Ndi Anambra irrespective of party affiliation. It is encouraging that Willie has extended the olive branch to all his political opponents and asked them to join him in developing the state. Since the election has come and gone, and winners and losers have emerged, it is good that all the politicians should jettison their individual interests and work for the greater interest of Anambra State. Since Obiano has indicated interest to work with his political opponents to further develop the state and douse the acrimony of defeat, I urge his co-contestants to accept the olive branch and move on. They should emulate ex-president Dr. Goodluck Jonathan’s worthy example. Let them team up with the incumbent and move Anambra to the next level. It is also good that, so far, none of them is contemplating going to the tribunal to challenge the outcome of the election. There is even no need to do so in an election that was transparent, free and fair and produced a clear winner. I strongly believe that contesting the outcome of the poll will amount to a terrible waste of time and scarce resources that can be deployed to other useful purposes. What the administration in Anambra needs now is time to concentrate and focus more on its development agenda that will be of immense benefit to Ndi Anambra. It does not need any form of distraction at all. Therefore, let it not be distracted with challenging the outcome of a transparent poll at the tribunal. Our politicians should learn how to accept defeat in electoral contest, congratulate the winner and move on as done in advanced countries of the world. Since all the contestants have the interest of Ndi Anambra at heart, I have no doubt that they will work together for the development of the state and rule out challenging the outcome of the election at the tribunal or engage in any distraction that will impede development in the state. It is important that they work with Willie and move Anambra to the next level.