Adedeji Fashina, is a certified Engineer and member, Nigeria Society of Engineers. He is the Protem Secretary, Internal Control and Party Discipline of the newly registered Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). In this encounter with Ismail Omipidan, he spoke on how the party was formed and why he joined the group. How do you feel getting recognition from INEC as a registered political party? There’s no gainsaying, I feel elated and happy for reasons more than one. First is the fact that not many persons gave us a splitting chance of getting certified, especially when we are no moneybags or old-order politicians. It is a case of can-do spirit, vision, hard-work, tenacity and professionalism paying off. It is one thing to describe the problems of Nigeria and to analyse it, but it is an entirely different thing to take steps and start doing something about the situation. To gather passionate, vibrant and sound Nigerian people to put heads together to aim at and attempt to change, not just the government but our politics, is no doubt heart warming. One year of complying with INEC requirements are not so simple, but if you must change a system you must be an example of that system. We were dogged, refused all temptations to cut corners, stuck to our core ethos and principles and today we are here as a registered political party. It is indeed an amazing thing. Being registered is not however the end, it is only the beginning of real work, the paradigm shift in Nigeria’s politics. You are not known to be a politician, so what were the things that informed your decision to join the group? During my quiet moments of introspection, I have often wondered about why things are retrogressing in Nigeria. About how real credible change can be brought about in the Country and how our future and our children’s future can be better and safe-guarded. I have often wondered that with the present scenario where a few individuals have grown to become god-fathers in existing political parties, whereby democratic ideals are often thrown to the seas upon the directives of money-bags and how little or no dividends of democracy are getting to our people. It was during one of those moments that I got a call in early December 2016 from my friend Tope Fasua, an Economist, Financial Analyst and Service Excellence Advocate of a plan to register a new party. Tope, had been writing a series of articles on the need for disenchanted Nigerians to quit the complaining and move away from arm-chair criticism and take action. He envisioned the creation of a mega-party of all Nigerians who felt short-changed by the inept governance. I immediately signified interest because that was what we needed. The other argument was that we should join the old parties and make the difference from within. With due respect, how can we hope to reform a system that has left Nigeria prostrate? A system that had no sound ideology, that didn’t try to communicate with any of their members, and had no discernible decent DNA? We rather went with the idea of establishing a new path rather than dissuading people from following an old path. We needed a new approach to governance outside of what the establishment politicians were offering. Untainted Nigerians, professionals, business people, tradesmen/women etc, decided it was time to come together to take destiny into our own hands instead of complaining on social media and offline. Let the light engage the darkness and let’s see the result. How did you come about the name of the Party? The name of the party was initially centered around ‘Renewal’ because we believe there is a need for renewing the way we think and do things. We believe also that there is Abundance in Nigeria to reach all, including our generations yet unborn, if we organise well and are sincere. We believe that the Abundance Nigeria has is for all and not just for a chosen few. Hence, the name, ANRP. Registering a party is one thing, making impact during election is another; what are the strategies you have put in place to ensure your party does not end up like many other mushroom ones before it? First of all let us understand that the party is set up first to point Nigeria and our huge population in the direction of renewal. We are here to bring about a Renewal in our society in and out of government. For us, it’s not a sprint but a marathon. We are here for the long haul. We are here for Nigeria, not just elections. And that’s what sets us apart from all the mushroom parties you talked about. We are registering an Institute to carry the ethos and message of the party to different strata of the society. If we change our politics maybe we will start having a different outcome. In essence, while we are out there mass mobilising and reaching out to our people, we have a long term approach to renewing Nigeria. We are a grassroots party, active in all 36 states, the FCT and in the Diaspora. We have presence in local government areas in the states and down to council wards. Our 28000+ verifiable members are spread across and our membership is growing daily.  One election cannot determine success or failure for us. Indeed one election may be a signal to redouble our efforts and instil a sense of urgency but one election cannot define us whether win or lose. Yet we are confident of making an impact in the next election and changing the narrative. And this has already started. We initiated crowd funding, online registration and party supremacy and structure, and even the old parties are now copying us. Setting the pace is what we do. We are running for all offices in the land beginning with local government elections this 2018. We already have candidates. Our party has a policy of sponsoring our councillorship candidates. We take the local government system serious because it is the closest to the people. As we go on from election to election, we shall keep improving. What are your projections as far as 2019 is concerned? As regards 2019, we believe our Nation will witness a departure from the old ways. It will not be entire but it will be significant enough for further action to be built upon. We want members, not just voters. As members, we are part-owners of the party and together we can choose the best candidates through transparent primaries by open ballot system.