Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has flagged off construction of four additional rural roads in the state. About 10 kilometres distance would be covered in this latest set of roads awarded for construction and they will cost the government about N1 billion. In the same vein,  the state executive council has approved the construction of five fire stations in  five council areas of the state in furtherance of the desire of the Ugwuanyi administration to save lives and property. Already, work has commenced on the four roads which include Obollo Eke Junction-Agala-Okpaligbo Junction, Ohom Orba-Amajioka-Umuikeoha-Agu Orba, and Okpu Agu Orba Road both  in Udenu Local Government Area of the state. Others include Ogurute-Mkpamute-Igogoro- Ikpamodo-Okpo-Amaja Road (phase 1), Ogurute-Umuogbo Ulo-Isiugwu-Umuopu-Ette Road (phase 1), in Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area of the state. Also, the State Executive Council has approved release of funds for the construction of fire stations in Udi, Udenu, Nkanu West, Oji River and Igbo-Eze North local government areas of the state to contain fire outbreaks. Speaking at the flag-off ceremony at Igbo- Eze North Local Government Area, the governor who was represented by the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Greg Nnaji, said it is the cardinal objective of this administration to reach the rural areas and extend access to the locals through construction of quality roads and provision of other basic infrastructures in the rural areas. He said the state government has worked out a template for the contracts and has fully mobilised contractors to sites.. adding that there is clear weather window for construction to guarantee speedy completion of the projects. He further stated that “the roads are standard single-carriage roads that would traverse our communities to provide access, mobility and economic value”, assuring that his ministry would ensure that every contract would be executed in line with the specifications. While shedding light on the construction of fire stations in  the five local government councils, Engr. Nnaji said, “His Excellency the governor has approved the construction of modern-facility fire stations in 9th Mile, Igbo-Eze North, Oji River, Orba and Agbani. “As we speak now, funds have been released to the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure for the construction of these stations with immediate effect. “Our governor, right from the time he was in the House of the Representatives has had the interest of the people at heart, so we should continue to pray for his administration to ensure the continuity of the dividends of democracy being enjoyed in the state today,” he said. Some stakeholders and politica leaders who wutnessed tge flagoff ceremonies expressed their appreciation for the projects and applauded the governor for being a symbol of good governance in the entire country. Engr. Nnaji earlier led the government functionaries to monitor the rehabilitation of Ebenyi Bridge in Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of the state with the contractor assuring that the multi-million naira project would be delivered in the first quarter of next year. It could be recalled that the Enugu State Government recently approved the sum of N1.5b for the rehabilitation of 14 urban and rural roads.  