By Simeon Mpamugoh It was a gathering of high-flying guests from all walks of life at the official opening of Cubana Club, Nigeria’s latest first-class entertainment hangout for people of the middle class, recently.
The event would go down in history as one of the best feel-good moments of 2017 in Lagos, Africa’s commercial capital and Nigeria’s “Centre of Excellence.”
Manager of the club, Joe Nazzal, noted that the all-glass architectural masterpiece located in a vibrant neighborhood on the Island promised to be a place where most Nigerians of substance would unwind, adding that the club witnessed the assemblage of highfliers from different fields of life at the formal opening ceremony.
He observed that, “The atmosphere can best be described as cozy, and the setting was simply classical. The popular Adeola Odeku Street in Victoria Island has practically turned into a Mecca of sorts as exotic automobiles filled up the expansive parking lot of the club.
“Top Nigerian celebrities like Toke Makinwa, E-Money, K-Cee, Lynxx, Frank Okamigbo and others were not left out of this historic moment as everyone turned up looking richly colourful. It is a carnival-like atmosphere as Nigeria’s circle of rich kids honoured the club with their presence and resources.”
The grand entry of the club is not really a surprise, the gentlemen behind the club are some of Nigeria’s brilliant minds. Nigeria’s entrepreneur of note, Obinna Oyiegbu, one of the country’s business whizkids, and the Nigerian-Lebanese manager, Joe Nazzal, are the winning combination behind the club.
The manager said, “Club Cubana is not just the regular Nigerian club with same routine services. At Cubana, there is something for everyone, perhaps, this is one of the few Nigerian clubs with an automated champagne service.
“Not only that, the club can comfortably accommodate1,000 people and here you will find a top-of-the-range hi-tech lighting. Also on offer at the club is the rooftop lounge called The Grind,  a skyview all-glass restaurant and bar purposefully built to create a wow effect with some of world’s most expensive interior settings and managed by top-class professionals.” 