Former legislators of the Rivers State House of Assembly have endorsed the State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike for a second term in office.The former state lawmakers premised the endorsement on the governor’s state-wide projects and the excellent implementation of the New Rivers Development Blueprint. Speaking during a solidarity visit at the Government House, Port Harcourt on Friday, leader of the Forum, Senator Adawari Pepple also announced that the Forum has passed a vote of confidence on the governor. He said: “We are convinced by the governor’s excellent performance that he should continue to lead Rivers State beyond 2019. Therefore, as a Forum, we call on the governor  to present himself to contest the 2019 governorship election.  We believe that the Rivers State governor deserves a second term”. He said that the performance of Governor Wike has promoted the image of Rivers State across the globe, leading to several prestigious awards. He saluted  the efforts of the governor in ensuring  that Prince Uche Secondus emerged as the National Chairman of the PDP. Responding, Governor Wike stated that his administration will continue  to deliver projects to all communities, irrespective of their political affiliation. He said the mandate of the people is an opportunity  to serve, noting that he will always give the interest of the people priority attention. He said: “We will  never play politics with infrastructure.  At present, we have ongoing projects in 22 out of the 23 Local Government Areas. The remaining Local Government Area will witness projects implementation by early next year.” On the election of the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, Governor Wike thanked Governors, National Assembly members and PDP chieftains from the six geo-political zones who worked for his victory. He said as governor of Rivers State, he will always pursue the good of the State. While thanking the former state lawmakers for their commitment to the growth of the State, he said that the state must work as a team for greater development. 