• Urges corps members to complement FG in nation-building From Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday said the government has paid N6 billion out of the N10 billion pension arrears accumulated between 1996 and 2000. Obaseki, who met with pensioners in the state on Monday to commemorate the 16th annual national Pensioners’ Day at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) secretariat, Benin, said the N3.9 billion arrears backlog would be cleared before December 2018. He said the arrears accumulated between 1996 to 2000 and the state government has been clearing them in batches, adding: “For state pensioners, we set aside N100 million monthly to address the balance of about N3.9 billion. We will increase this amount as the state revenue profile increases.” He explained that when his administration came on board, local governments were unable to pay pensions, hence, the state put up measures to enable them generate revenue, which, he said, is gradually yielding positive results. The state Chairman of Nigeria Union Pensioners (NUP), Pullen Noruwa, commended the governor for attending the event and setting up an eight-member committee to address pension matters in the state. Meanwhile, the governo has urged corps members to complement the Federal Government’s quest in repositioning the nation by being the agents of change. The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Youths and Special Duty, Mika Amanokha, gave the charge yesterday, during the closing ceremony of the 2017 Batch “B” Stream I Orientation Course at the temporary  orientation camp of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Okada, Ovia North East Local Government Area of the state. He said since the country is faced with both political and economic challenges, their impact must be felt in all facets of the nation’s economy. . “Dear corps members, the fact that the responsibilities of our youths in the task of nation building cannot be over emphasised, the NYSC has launched you into the mainstream of socio-economic development. “May I stress at this point that your complimentary roles in nation building is highly needed at this crucial time when the nation is faced with both political and economic challenges,” he said. He asked the corps members to synergize with their host communities and see that their expectations are not cut off. The NYSC state Coordinator, Mallam Abdullahi Yusuf Baba while presenting the 2,250 corps members before the governor, said they would be posted to the 18 local government areas of the state in conformity with the posting policy of the scheme as directed by the federal government. Abdullahi assured the governor that the corps members, with commitment and dedication to duty, will contribute to the development of the nation’s economy and the state which they are posted to.