• Mass exodus of herders, cattles sparks fresh crisis in Nasarawa From Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin-Kebbi and Linus Oota, Lafia Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and security agencies, on Monday evening, averted reprisal attack by a Fulani community on farmers after a farmer allegedly killed a cattle rearer, Mallam Muhamadu Rabo,  a 32 years old resident of Mai Zagga village. Daily Sun gathered that the deceased was accused  by a farmer, whose name was given as Muhammad Karo, and his son, Bashir Muhammad Karo, who was still at large,  for destroying his farm produce, ambushed and attacked him with dangerous weapons until he died. Aggrieved by the farmer’s action, Daily Sun gathered that Fulani herdsmen were preparing to avenge the death of their kinsman before security agencies intervened on Monday evening. Governor Bagudu, it was learnt, paid unscheduled visit to the Mai Zagga village, where he appealed to aggrieved Fulani herdsmen to sheat their swords. Chief Press Secretary to Governor Bagudu, Alhaji Muazu  Dankingeri, in a statement made available to Daily Sun yesterday quoted thr governor to have  appealed to the deceased father and kinsmen not to embark on a revenge mission, assuring them that justice will take its course. “The governor prayed Allah to grant the deceased eternal rest and his father fortitude to bear the loss. “Father of the deceased,  Dikko Kirowa, from Run to vallage, near Mai-Zagga, thanked Gover Bagudu for his visit and financial support to the family and said “the people of the area have resolved not to revenge,” he said. While confirming the arrest of the suspect, Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), Kebbi State Police Command, DSP Suleiman Mustapha, told Daily Sun, on phone, that the farmer, Muhammad Karo is in custody of the police. He added that his son, Bashir  Muhammad Karo, was still at large. The influx of Fulani herders and thousands of cattles into parts of Nasarawa State is said to be giving farmers in the state sleepless nights. The development follows  the enactment of anti-open grazing law in neighboring Benue State. The mass movement has already heightened serious security tension in Awe, Keana and Obi  council areas of the state, where over 85 percent of the migrating herders from Benue State are stationed, and 75 percent of farmers there were yet to harvest their crops. Only last Saturday, a young farmer, Moses Gagah, from Akunza Mai giro, Jemkwe development Area, Obi Local Government Area of the state , was allegedly slaughtered in his farm, while several other farmers sustained various degrees of injuries. Chairman of Miyyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigerian (MACBAN) Nasarawa State chapter, Alhaji Muhammed Hussaini, while addressing herders during a stakeholder’s security meeting in Awe Local Government, condemned the violence. Hussaini, who expressed worries over the activities of Fulani herdsmen, who ceaselessly wreck havoc on the produce of farmers in the area, warned the herders against taking laws into their hands. He appealed to  security agents around  to arrest and prosecute any herder found destroying farmers’ crops. “We are not here to cause a crisis or to accuse anyone, but to call a spade a spade and proffer sustainable solutions to the problem of nomadic cattle rearing. This issue is not just ravaging our farms, but gradually and steadily snowballing into rape, robbery and other forms of criminality” The MACBAN chairman who disclosed that the association had set up a 35-man committee,  comprising herders and farmers,  charged them to be alert to herders from other states infiltrating into the ranks of the cattle herdsmen in the area to cause trouble. A leader of Fulani herders, who advised farmers not to burn the scraps of crops after harvest, also  sensitized the herdsmen grazing on the Nasarawa/Benue borders on the consequences of violating the anti-open grazing law in Benue state. To end frequent crisis between herdsmen and farmers, he urged  the federal government to collaborate with states to adopt ranching as the lawfully recognized method of rearing livestock in the country. Meanwhile, Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Atiku Abubakar and security agencies on Monday evening averted reprisal attack of Fulani’s community on farmers after a farmer allegedly killed a  32 year old cattle rearer,  Mallam Muhamadu Rabo. Daily Sun gathered that the deceased,was accused  by a farmer,  whose name was given as   Muhammad Karo and his son Bashirm,  who are  still at large for destroying his farm produce, Aggrieved by the farmer’s action, Daily Sun gathered that Fulani’s herdsmen were preparing to avenge the death of their kinsman before security agencies intervened. Governor Bagudu, it was  further learnt, paid unscheduled visit to the Mai Zagga Village where he appealed to aggrieved Fulani’s herdsmen to sheath their swords. According to the Chief Press Secretary to  the governor, Alhaji Muazu  Dankingeri,  in a statement made available to journalists, quoted the  governor to have  appealed to the deceased father  and their kinsmen not to  embark  on revenge mission and assured  that justice would take its course. 