From Chukwudera Eze, Enugu It was a week of turnaround recently for some female teachers in Enugu State as those of them not computer literate were hooked on to the digital age. The weeklong activities were female primary school teachers, particularly those willing to learn basic computer operations. The World Federation of Engineering Organization (WEFO) in collaboration with the Women in Engineering (WIE) committee of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) had packaged an intensive course on basic computer operations for them. The pilot training which was first held in Abuja from October 11-15, 2015, had 44 female primary school teachers from the various public primary schools within the Federal Capital Territory trained at no fee. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the training, Commissioner for Ministry of Science and technology, Enugu, Patrick Ikpenwa, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Prince Charles Maduekwe said: “Without real access to technology, there is a limit to how and what women can contribute. More women, especially in the rural and informed sector, need to use ICT to get things done in their lives. “The mobile phone is a start, but ICT goes beyond receiving and making calls on the mobile phone. Women must be active ICT participants, users, professionals, creators, producers and entrepreneurs. To make a difference, women must engage in productive ICT and ICT-driven activities.” He encouraged participants to be serious in applying what they have learnt. National President of NSE, Otis Anyaeji, who was represented by the Chairman, Board of Fellows, College of Fellows of Nigerian Society of Engineers, Chris Okoye, encouraged participants not to leave for long what they have learnt. Chairman of Women in Engineering Committee of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Mrs. Esther Gonda, who was represented by the Enugu State coordinator for NSE/WIE, Mrs. Nneka Nwagugu, congratulated the participants and encouraged them to put into practice what they have been taught. One of the teachers, who has not come in contact with computer before, Mrs. Ugwoke Gloria, said: “I have been teaching for 25 years. I have been seeing computer, but I have never touched it since I was born. My happiness is that I touched the mouse. I thought that cursor is butterfly, but I have known what it is. “I don’t know what to call myself. I beat my children whenever I see them operating their phones, but I never knew I was a disabled woman. I have decided to continue the computer training once I leave here.” Highpoint of event was the giving of certificates and award, which the first, second and third positions went home with a laptop, iPad and an Android phone respectively.