Chairman/CEO of HS Media Group, owners of the HotSports brand, Mr Taye Ige believes Nigeria will have their best FIFA World Cup outing yet in Russia next year and reckons the Super Eagles have the potentials to reach the semi-finals. The Super Eagles were once again drawn in the same group as Argentina for the 2018 World Cup in Russia with Iceland and Croatia completing the quartet. It is the fifth time in six outings Nigeria will be pitched against Argentina in the group stage of the World Cup. Speaking while delivering his opening remarks as the Chairman of ceremony at the Nigeria Award for Sporting Excellence held on Saturday at the Lagos Airport Hotel, Ikeja, Mr Ige insisted that Nigeria could not have wished for a better draw. “One must remark that God Almighty answered our prayers,” he began. “In my view, we had the luck of the draw and we have every reason to celebrate our World Cup grouping. “Argentina cannot stop us. We beat them recently in Russia and, by the dint of dedication, focus, determination and the special grace of God, we will beat them again during the FIFA World Cup finals in Russia. Croatia, even by UEFA ratings, are a category ‘B’ team in Europe while debutantes Iceland are already content rubbing shoulders with the big boys. We will have more reason to celebrate as I foresee the Super Eagles going far at 2018 FIFA World Cup. “To go far and be considered as having had a successful campaign, Nigeria should at least make it to the semi-finals. Is this possible? Yes, I do believe so.” Without advocating complacency, all that needs to be done right now is for every stakeholder to continue to do their bit as diligently as they have done so far. This is the very first time we are heading to the World Cup with stability all around the Team: the technical crew; the Federation; the players. All this should combine to give us an unforgettable World Cup,” Mr Ige concluded. Except for France 1998, Nigeria have faced two-time world champions Argentina in all their previous World Cup campaigns. Unfortunately, the Super Eagles have lost all their previous World Cup games against the South American but will be buoyed by a 4-2 thrashing handed down to the Argentines in a friendly match last month.