From: WOLE BALOGUN, Ado-Ekiti Gubernatorial aspirants of the People Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ekiti have preached peace unity and love to all at Christmas, saying without these virtues, Nigeria can not move forward. PDP ‎governorship aspirant, Ambassador Dare Bejide who urged Nigerians to embrace peace and love by praying for the coming year to be peace and fruitful for all, said: “I wish all Ekiti people merry Christmas and urge all to embrace peace, love and unity. These really virtues that charaterize the godliness of our Lord Jesus Christ whose birthday we are celebrating. I therefore urge us all to pray for next year as there are challenges ahead which we need God’s intervention to surmount. Bejide in his Christmas message further urged citizens to pray for a better Nigeria. “this country is our Jerusalem and so we should seek her greatness and success. Let us shun all acts of disunity, violence and hatred and embrace love, peace and unity and may the great Lord continue to bless our nation, “he said. Commenting on the biting effect of the on-going fuel scarcity across the country, Bejide knocked the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, alleging that the Buhari administration has failed in bringing a positive change to the petroleum sector in spite of his promises before election.
According to him APC has instead damaged the country for three years of its ruling.
Bejide also advised Ekiti residents to vote for credible person in forthcoming July 14, 2018 governorship election so as enjoy better leadership than what obtains currently. In the same vein, APC’s governorship hopeful, Kola Alabi, urged Nigerians to be prayerful and ensure that peace, love and unity are values they cherish: “as we are ushered into a new year loaded with fresh hope, renewed determination and brighter future. ” Alabi who said that Ekiti people deserves better and more progressive and development oriented leadership than what is being witnessed now, urged them to vote credible candidate in APC: “so that we can bring a more fruitful change to all facets of our peoples’life. Another APC governorship aspirant, Senator Ayo Arise, has enjoined Christian faithfuls to reflect on the birth and character of Christ to conduct themselves chastely during this yuletide period.
Senator Arise in his Christmas message admonished Christians to use the celebration of the birth of Christ to pray for the peace and togetherness of the country. The Senator said that prayer is the only tool: ” that can reinvent the new Nigeria that we all crave, as the country is in serious need of prayers, most especially for those that are at the helm of affairs. ”
Arise who urged Ekiti workers to continue in their persevering spirit as the arrival of a new government shall usher in their deserved packages. He said: ” this we shall do if given the opportunity to preside over the affairs of the State as the number citizen.”
The Senator also advised the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to further strengthen the security of public areas that people normally frequent during this festive period saying: “It is our prayer that the remaining days of this year shall usher in fulfilled expectations. Merry Christmas and happy new year in advance.” 