Perhaps, no event that could shake the world’s foundation and reshape it had taken place in recent times like the bold decision of President Donald Trump of the United States to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
Expectedly, reactions were fast and deep. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hailed it as historic, just and courageous, while Mahmoud Abbas’ Palestine Liberation Organisation railed at it, saying  Trump had destroyed the two-state solution and warned against the likelihood of the United States continuing to broker peace. For Hamas, Trump’s decision had stirred hell in the region, as it threatened violence against US interests worldwide but the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, said there was no alternative to a two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians, adding that Jerusalem was a final-status issue that required direct talks to resolve.
People may say anything they like about Trump, his brashness and all, but nobody can take away from him that, right now, angels are giving him a standing ovation for his rarity. He is a man who does not mind swimming alone and even against the tide in defence of his convictions, especially when they are just.
The world had dithered for far too long in taking the right decision but here was a man whom posterity would always hold in awe, telling the world that intimidation by terrorists was not enough excuse for failure. So, he stood up to be counted, alone, and did what was right and proper before the Lord. After all, it was this same attribute that made him President of the world’s number one nation against popular expectations and tested political gladiators like former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Trump has no stomach for political niceties, doublespeak or trickery. He is an unlikely politician and now it is obvious why God gave him victory over much more politically exposed opponents even when his own party doubted and abandoned him. It was certainly divine orchestration for an occasion like this, the restoration of the Israeli capital.
Jerusalem was actually the Jewish nation’s capital before the country was dispersed into captivity. Yes, for sceptics, let it be emphasised that it is a historical fact that Jerusalem was the capital of the Jews even during the time of King David, until about AD 35 to 70, when God allowed the dispersal of the Jews. The Jewish nation went through hell literally. They suffered in the hands of virtually all the great powers of old: Egypt,  Greece, Rome,  the inquisition in Spain, pogroms in Russia, Germany, the Holocaust, the armies of seven Arab countries, Saddam Hussein and other atrocious crimes till date, yet the tiny nation still stands tall whereas their tormentors are whittled or exterminated.
It was during the time of dispersal that the Arab nations made a mess of its land but, thankfully, the United Nations allowed Israel back home in 1948, to a place that was more desert than land but the Arabs sought to destroy the fledgling country. The world still remembers the six-day war with awe, when seven Arab nations came together to wipe out the tiny nation but went up in smoke instead. Within those six days in a blitzkrieg of audacity never seen in history, the small nation decimated the Arab world put together and recaptured its lost territories, including part of Jerusalem, which the Arabs also lay claim to, being descendants of Abraham too.
Isaelis have made their desert bloom in accordance to the biblical promise of a land flowing with milk and honey and sent their own satellites into space, at the same time, much to the envy of the perpetually famished and squalid Arab world roundabout.
The Arabs had destroyed the temple of Solomon in Jerusalem and built their mosque there but since the recapture, there has been much acrimony, with the United Nations laid back and ostensibly applying caution. Well, Trump has chosen to be on the side of history and truth and taken the first bold step to correct injustice done to the Jewish nation. The world may not love it but that is divine will and all other nations should queue behind Trump and support the truth, instead of the ambivalence and unfair judgment of a people the Arab want wiped off the face of the earth.
However, it will never happen. Those who think it would should cast their minds back to the 1967 six-day war and how it took the small Jewish state little effort to rout the greatest challenge to its survival, just a few hours after its creation. What do you think was responsible for the amazing victory of the Jews? Simple, Divine Covenant, which subsists till date. Ever wondered why the tiny nation sitting like a dot in the midst of violent, hostile neighbours prevails and in surfeit prosperity while those that hate it are scorched and rundown? Same covenant! Israel is a stubborn fly perching precariously on the ballocks of the world, particularly the Arabs, and must be left alone or suffer the excruciating pain of trying to remove it.
However, apart from the political angle, the spiritual should be of much more interest to the world. Israel is the Calendar of the fate of world, which has been blinded by Satan to see the hand of God, clearly spelt out in the Bible.
For how long will an impervious world kick against the bricks? The God of Israel never sleeps nor slumbers; neither can anything take Him unawares. It is man that MUST yield to Him. How I wish the wool Satan put over the eyes of man would be unveiled that he might see and escape the horrors of impending hell here on earth and hereafter.
This Jerusalem will host the government of Jesus Christ after His second coming. It is unthinkable that the future capital city of the Lord would be under the control of Muslims. Rather than that happen, as the saints await that great event, Jerusalem would soon be united under one government of Israel. The mosque built on the ruined temple of Solomon will not subsist, as the temple of the Lord is rebuilt where it once stood despite the looming infatida and unparalleled violence against Israeli and American interests, even as the Tribulation draws near, and physical manifestation of the Antichrist and the War of Armageddon.
Mind you, this is divine and there is nothing any man can do about it. So, the reality spearheaded by Trump should be food for thought for the wise, Christians, Muslims and unbelievers. Trump might not even know that he is being used to fulfill a divine purpose.
Think about it and amend your ways; if the trumpet sounds NOW and the Lord returns in glory, as He surely will, would you be among the number?