From Sola Ojo,  Kaduna AS people of Nindem village in Godogodo Chiefdom of Jenma’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State were still mourning the death of four members of the community killed by a  gunman Friday night, another attack was launched at Ungwan Mailafiya in Kwagiri District of Gwong Chiefdom of the same local government leaving six persons dead. The attack coming on the eve of Christmas Day was reminiscent of the sad attack at Goska on the eve of last year’s Christmas celebration where several persons were killed. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Aliyu Mukhtar, could not confirm the development as he did not pick his calls or reply the text message sent to his mobile line as at the time of filing this report. But member representing Jema’a/ Sanga Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Shehu Nicholas Garba, in a statement yesterday condemned the attack, calling on the security personnel and Governor Nasir El-Rufai to do something urgently. He said, “it was with deep shock and concern that I received the news of the attack on Nindem Village in Godogodo Chiefdom at about 10pm on Friday, December 22, 2017. “In this attack, four persons were killed and 10 others were critically injured. The dead were buried the following day under the watch of the security personnel. “The wounded are currently being attended to at the Throneroom Hospital in Kafanchan while other severe cases have been referred to JUTH in Jos. “While we were mourning the deaths at Nindem, at about 10pm on Christmas eve on Sunday, the security personnel received distress calls of another attack at Ungwan Mailafiya in Kwagiri District of Gwong Chiefdom. “By daybreak on Christmas Day, six persons have been confirmed killed including a child of about six years old and many others injured. “These recent attacks defy all human logic as there appears to be no immediate trigger. That these attacks took place on the eve of Christmas is a demonstration of the total contempt of the perpetrators of the solemnity of this season. “We had thought that the relative peace which had been witnessed over the past months, arising from efforts of well-meaning individuals and bodies, was going to translate into a permanent peace which our people desperately desire. “Unfortunately, it appears that some persons or group, are bent on perpetuating violence and turning our hitherto peaceful communities into a theatre of war for reasons not yet clear to all peace-loving people. “As a representative of these communities and a human being, these incidents are painful and stand totally condemned. We will continue to promote the virtues of peace and harmonious co-existence amongst all our communities. “I am appealing to the security agencies to quickly investigate the latest incidents with a view to apprehending and bringing the perpetrators to justice. “I am also appealing to Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, the Governor of Kaduna State, to ensure that these latest incidents do not go the way of similar previous incidents where the perpetrators were never apprehended. “There is no doubt that the impunity which has followed previous incidents has continued to embolden the murderers whose agenda is yet to be unravelled. “I am also calling on the state government to complement our efforts in rendering assistance to the injured. “We are calling on all Nigerians and the international community to take a special notice of the happenings and plight of our communities which are daily being decimated by forces that the state has persistently failed to unearth.” He, however, urged the affected communities to remain calm and avoid embarking on any form of violent reaction while expecting the security personnel to act. 