From WOLE BALOGUN, Ado Ekiti Deputy governor of Ekiti State and 2018 governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Professor Kolapo Olubunmi Olusola, has said that Ekiti people will prefer him to other candidates, as their next governor because they earnestly desire somebody who will continue the good work started by Governor Ayodele Fayose. Olusola further said that no other contestants from his party, the APC and other parties could match him in terms of experience. He said he is far more competent than other aspirants for the number one position in the state. Olusola insisted that no other contestants could match him in terms of experience to lead Ekiti, especially from the point where incumbent governor Ayo Fayose would exit next year. Recall that some aspirants from both the PDP and APC, had described Olusola, as a political neophyte who has no experience to lead Ekiti as they do. But reacting to the claims of his opponents yesterday, Olusola, in press a statement by the Director of Publicity and Strategy of the Kolapo Olusola Campaign Organisation (KOCO), Mr. Kamil Ishola, said:” I was generously amused when some people were quoted as referring to me as politically inexperienced, what experience can they, who haven’t even been on this seat as deputy governor lay claim to that I don’t have? And such experience, I have gathered under a political guru and professor of politics of all times in the person of Governor Ayo Fayose? “I’m a builder by profession, who can only govern Ekiti far better than anyone after governor Fayose. I am the only man that can continue the good works started by Ayo Fayose because I am an adherent of the principles of the people – oriented government style of Ayo Fayose and a loyal, dependable and tested hand. “I possess the intellectual capability and a full grasp of the challenges under this administration. In an austere economy, this administration has been able to perform creditably well with many legacy projects executed and what does Ekiti require if not continuity? “The support given to me by the governor and stakeholders in Ekiti has not ruled out the primaries where I will face other aspirants and I am very confident of not only defeating them to clinch the party’s ticket, but also lead the PDP to defeat the APC in July 14, 2018, governorship election.