A scuffle broke out in Uganda’s parliament on Wednesday as some lawmakers confronted security personnel while debate was being held on a law that would let President Yoweri Museveni extend his rule. The lawmakers blocked the security personnel from entering the building where the debate was going on. Live television showed two legislators dragged by security personnel, put in police vehicles and driven away to an unknown destination. Police did not immediately respond to calls seeking comment. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that on Tuesday, the parliament had unexpectedly adjourned their debate on the same issue after a lawmaker said that soldiers had entered the building. The lawmakers were debating a draft bill that would remove a constitutional age cap that bars Museveni from standing again. The constitution limits the age of a presidential candidate to 75, making 73-year-old Museveni ineligible to stand at the next election in 2021. Museveni has ruled for 31 years but public anger is mounting over corruption, rights violations and poor social services. While the debate was ongoing, some members of parliament exchanged blows with the police and that led to the suspension of six of the lawmakers. Proceedings resumed about two hours after they were suspended and stretched on for about seven hours before Kadaga adjourned them again to Wednesday, when a final vote on the bill is expected. “There were so many (soldiers), I saw them. “They were in the chaplaincy,” legislator Gaffa Mbwatekamwa, among several in Museveni’s ruling party who oppose extending his rule said on Tuesday. Television footage showed chaotic scenes of lawmakers and police both trying to address the cameras. A previous attempt to debate the bill in September ended with lawmakers trading punches and throwing chairs and the forcible intervention of security forces. Several legislators were hospitalised with injuries. The scuffles broke out between the lawmakers and police shortly after speaker Rebecca Kadaga adjourned the debate. It was unclear what exactly triggered the confrontation. (Source: Reuters/NAN) 