From Emmanuel Uzor, Abakaliki THE Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday, insisted that restructuring of Nigeria and not Igbo presidency will end agitations from various ethnic groups across the country. The was even as the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) hit back at Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka over alleged comment against the group. National Publicity Secretary of the group, Mr. Uche Achi-Okaga explained that Ohanaeze is an organised and focused organisation, adding that no amount of propaganda on the issue of Igbo presidency would distract it from pursuing its core mandate of protecting the welfare and interest of Ndigbo in every part of the country. “In Ohanaeze, we are focused, so, no one can use the issue of Igbo presidency to distract us. On restructuring we stand. Igbo presidency without restructuring will make little or no difference and it will not address various ethnic agitations. “Defection of some Igbo personalities to the All Progressives Congress (APC) is of no relevance  to Ohanaeze. One can defect to Heaven or hell, but Ndigbo will not identify with any political party that is not in marriage with restructuring. Okorocha can speak for Imo APC or the government of Imo State, but he is not in a good stead to speak for Ndigbo.” Meanwhile, IPOB also condemned the statement credited to Fr. Mbaka in his recent prophecy. In a statement by the IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, the group said:  “If in doubt, try and listen to Kanu preach on Radio Biafra, then you will know that God is with him, more than he will ever be with Fr. Mbaka.”   Restructuring not Igbo presidency will end agitation -Ohanaeze …As IPOB hits back at Fr. Mbaka From Emmanuel Uzor, Abakaliki THE Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday insisted that restructuring of Nigeria and not Igbo presidency will end agitations from various ethnic groups across the country. The was even as the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) hit back at Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka over alleged comment against the group. National Publicity Secretary of the group, Mr. Uche Achi-Okaga explained that Ohanaeze is an organised and focused organisation, adding that no amount of propaganda on the issue of Igbo presidency would distract it from pursuing its core mandate of protecting the welfare and interest of Ndigbo in every part of the country. “In Ohanaeze, we are focused, so that one cannot use the issue of Igbo presidency to distract us. On restructuring we stand. Igbo presidency without restructuring will make little or no difference and it will not address various ethnic agitations. “Defection of some Igbo personalities to the All Progressives Congress (APC) is of no relevance  to Ohanaeze. One can defect to Heaven or hell but Ndigbo will not identify with any political party that is not in marriage with restructuring. Okorocha can speak for Imo APC or the government of Imo State, but he is not in a good stead to speak for Ndigbo.” Meanwhile, IPOB also condemned the statement credited to Rev. Mbaka in his recent prophecy. In a statement by the IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, the group said:  “If in doubt, try and listen to Kanu preach on Radio Biafra, then you will know that God is with him, more than he will ever be with Fr. Mbaka. A man that destroyed Nigeria without firing a single bullet is greater than Nigeria.”