Multi-talented rapper, Azubuike Chibuzo Nelson, popularly known as Phyno, has said that he would forever cherish The Sun Creative Personality of the Year award bestowed on him. Speaking when a team from The Sun visited his residence to formally present a letter notifying him of the award, Phyno said: “For you to work so hard and a particular body recognises and picks you out among other persons, I think it is something big. This is an award I will cherish and acknowledge forever. “To be very honest, when I do music, I don’t have winning awards at the back of my mind. I focus on the fans. I have my low and high moments, but I like making music. When the music drops and it goes far more than your expectation, and you are now being recognised for what you have done, I think it is a different level of joy and happiness.”  Heaping praises on The Sun for its resilience and staying power after being around for almost 14 years, Phyno said: “The Sun is the oldest tabloid in Nigeria. The Sun has been around from the era when there was no social media till now and it is still very strong. Big shout out to the newspaper for its longevity. I know for a fact that it is not easy. I remember the days when I used to buy The Sun for my dad. Every morning, he would say, ‘go and buy The Sun for me,’ even though, I didn’t understand some of the stories then. I am a headline person; so, before I bought the newspaper, I would have read the headlines. I would get home and start telling my dad that I had read the whole newspaper. “My dad would just laugh me off. But as a matter of fact, The Sun has come a long way. It has been around for a long time and still waxing stronger. I know it is not easy; so kudos to the newspaper.” Earlier, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Mr. Eric Osagie, represented by Editor, Saturday Sun, Mr. Femi Babafemi, said The Sun Board of Editors, after a rigorous process of scrutiny and debate, voted Phyno as joint winner of The Sun Creative Personality of the Year 2016, because of his outstanding achievements in music. The Sun Awards 2016 holds on February 18, 2017 at the Expo Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos.  Former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, will be the Chairman on the occasion. Nineteen distinguished Nigerians will be honoured at the award ceremony, which is already generating much interest across the country.  They are: Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun (Man of the Year); Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike (Governor of the Year); Chief Tony Ezenna, Chairman of Orange Drugs Group Limited (Manufacturer of the Year); Yakubu Dogara, Speaker, House of Representatives (Political Icon) and Alhaji Shehu Dikko, Chairman of the League Management Company  (Sport Personality), among others. Other distinguished winners are:  Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari (Courage in Leadership); Dr. Stella Okoli, CEO, Emzor Pharmaceutical (Business Personality of the Year); Mr. Herbert Wigwe, MD, Access Bank Plc (Banker of the Year), Dr. Cosmas Maduka, Chairman of Coscharis Group (Investor of the Year), Prof. Anya O. Anya, Chief Nike Akande, Chief Razak Okoya, Dr. Kalu Idika Kalu and Alhaji Abubakar Balarabe Musa (Lifetime Achievement); Alhaji Tajudeen Owoyemi, Chairman, Avalon International Limited (Hospitality Firm of the Year); Rita Dominic (Nollywood Personality); the late Lt. Col. Mohammed Abu Ali (Nigerian Hero of the Year) and Azubuike Nelson (Phyno) & Olamide Adedeji (Creative Personalities).