From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha, Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and Obinna Odogwu, Ekwulobia Leadership of the Independent Democrats Party (IDP) has declared its readiness to challenge the incumbent Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano in the forthcoming governorship election in the state and possibly take over the Awka Government House. Chairman of the party in the state, Mazi Omife. I. Omife, while making this disclosure at the party’s  secretariat in Awka during an enlarged meeting of the party executives in the 326 wards, also said three prominent politicians have indicated interest to fly the party’s flag during the polls. Omife also disclosed that arrangements have been concluded for the state congress of the party to hold at ward, local government and state levels before the end of next month. The IDP,  whose membership is drawn mostly from former and some serving town union president generals, according to the chairman, has also perfected its grassroots mobilisation to enlighten the Anambra State electorate on the party’s manifesto and its vision to liberate the people of the state from “years of socio economic bondage and exploitation by the so called big parties and unconscionable politicians.” Also, Anambra State Chairman of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Paul Asika, has said the party would accommodate other parties in its government if voted into power during the forthcoming elections in the state. Speaking with newsmen shortly after its meeting in Awka, Asika said the party would offer members of other political parties the opportunity to be part of government to make their contributions towards the progress of the state. “ADC will accommodate all political parties in the state if it wins the election. This is what the ruling party in the state is not doing. It is not accommodating other political parties and that is not healthy for our political development.” The chairman disclosed that some notable politicians were already discussing with the party to contest on its platform, adding that Chief Godwin Ezeemo and Chief Ifeanyi Ubah topped the list of those who had commenced useful discussions with them. Meanwhile, one of the aspirants in the forthcoming Anambra State governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and National Auditor of the party, Chief George Moghalu has urged politicians and people of the state to shun religious politics. Encouraging his people to also shun denominational politics and sentiments, Moghalu asked Anambra people to go about the forthcoming governorship election based on good and qualitative governance. Moghalu, who spoke to newsmen in his Nnewi country home at the weekend stated that such politics was mundane, as the 21st Century politics has gone beyond any kind of sentiments, hence, the state must play the politics of the moment being the light of the nation. Reacting to the insinuation by one of the aspirants in the election that he (Moghalu) was not a member of the Catholic Church and hence, should not be allowed to be governor of the state, the APC chieftain described the sentiments as unfortunate and unnecessary. “I’m a Catholic by birth. I wedded in the Catholic and I’m a husband of one wife. But these sentiments are unnecessary. There’s no market called catholic market. The pentecostal, the Anglican, the Catholic, the atheist, we all go to the same market. Omife also disclosed that arrangements have been concluded for the state congress of the party to hold at ward, local government and state levels before the end of March this year. The ID Party whose membership is drawn mostly from former and some serving town union president generals according to the chairman has also perfected its grassroots mobilisation to enlighten the Anambra State electorate on the party’s manifesto and its vision to liberate the people of the state from “years of socio economic bondage and exploitation by the so called big parties and unconscionable politicians.” He said the congress would be attended by national officers of the party as well as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials and representatives of labour in the state to ensure strict adherence to party guidelines. Omife who is a former president general in Anambra State also said the door of the party is still open for other credible politicians in the state. He assured that the party would give all prospective candidates, a level playing field in the final choice for the state’s flag bearer. Anambra Guber/sd Anambra guber: ID Party  to challenge Obiano From Aloysius Attah, Onitsha, Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and Obinna Odogwu, Ekwulobia Leadership of the Independent Democrats Party (IDP) has declared its readiness to challenge the incumbent Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano in the forthcoming governorship election in the state and possibly take over the Awka Government House. Chairman of the party in the state, Mazi Omife. I. Omife, while making this disclosure at the party’s  secretariat in Awka at an enlarged meeting of the party executives in the 326 wards also said three prominent politicians have indicated interest to fly the party’s flag during the polls. Omife also disclosed that arrangements have been concluded for the state congress of the party to hold at ward, local government and state levels before the end of March this year. The ID Party whose membership is drawn mostly from former and some serving town union president generals according to the chairman has also perfected its grassroots mobilisation to enlighten the Anambra State electorate on the party’s manifesto and its vision to liberate the people of the state from “years of socio economic bondage and exploitation by the so called big parties and unconscionable politicians.” He said the congress would be attended by national officers of the party as well as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials and representatives of labour in the state to ensure strict adherence to party guidelines. Also, Anambra State Chairman of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Paul Asika, has said the party will accommodate other parties in its government if voted into power in this year’s governorship poll. Speaking with newsmen shortly after its meeting in Awka, he said the party would offer members of other political parties the opportunity to be part of government to make their contributions toward the progress of the state. “ADC will accommodate every political party in the state if it wins the election. This is what the ruling party in the state is not doing. The ruling party is not accommodating other political parties and it is not healthy for our political development.” The chairman disclosed that some notable politicians were already discussing with the party to contest on its platform, adding that Chief Godwin Ezeemo and Chief Ifeanyi Ubah topped the list of those who had commenced useful discussions with them. “Already, somebody has said whether rain or sunshine that he is going to contest in this party. To tell you now, three people have called me on this issue. Ezeemo has called me, Ifeanyi Ubah has called me on this issue of election. And somebody who has his own private business was telling me he is interested in this party; that he is going to sponsor the party to any level,” he disclosed. Meanwhile, One of the aspirants in the forthcoming Anambra State governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and National Auditor of the party, Chief George Moghalu has urged politicians and people of the state to shun religious politics. Encouraging his people to also shun denominational politics and sentiments, Moghalu asked Anambra people to go about the governorship election coming up in the state latter this year, based on good and qualitative governance. Moghalu, who spoke to newsmen in his Nnewi country home at the weekend stated that such politics was mundane, as the 21st Century politics has gone beyond any kind of sentiments, hence, the state must play the politics of the moment being the light of the nation. Reacting to the insinuation by one of the aspirants in the election that he (Moghalu) was not a member of the Catholic Church and hence, should not be allowed to be governor of the state, the APC chieftain described the sentiments as unfortunate and unnecessary. “I’m a Catholic by birth. I wedded in the Catholic and I’m a husband of one wife. But these sentiments are unnecessary. There’s no market called catholic market. The pentecostal, the Anglican, the Catholic, the atheist, we all go to the same market. Omife also disclosed that arrangements have been concluded for the state congress of the party to hold at ward, local government and state levels before the end of March this year. The ID Party whose membership is drawn mostly from former and some serving town union president generals according to the chairman has also perfected its grassroots mobilisation to enlighten the Anambra State electorate on the party’s manifesto and its vision to liberate the people of the state from “years of socio economic bondage and exploitation by the so called big parties and unconscionable politicians.” He said the congress would be attended by national officers of the party as well as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials and representatives of labour in the state to ensure strict adherence to party guidelines. Omife who is a former president general in Anambra State also said the door of the party is still open for other credible politicians in the state. He assured that the party would give all prospective candidates, a level playing field in the final choice for the state’s flag bearer.