From: Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Justice Olalekan Owolabi of an Oyo State High Court, sitting at Iyaganku, Ibadan, has adjourned for hearing of the case filed by an Ibadan Baale against the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso, over his removal from office. The Olubadan had announced the removal of Chief Lukman Alao as Baale of Oloode town in Oluyole Local Government Area of Oyo State on Monday, January 9, 2017 and Chief Dauda Odeyemi was appointed and sworn-in immediately by the monarch as the new Baale of the town. Alao thereafter slammed a N2 million suit against the Olubadan, Olubadan-in-Council, Oluyole Local Government and the newly installed Baale over his removal from office. Though no reason was given for the removal by the palace, investigation revealed that the removal of the Lagos-based auto dealer might not be unconnected with allegations of high-handedness and rituals, culminating in endless litigations and security harassment. The Ibadan monarch was said to have appealed to the removed Baale to reconcile with his community over the lingering crisis. But the efforts, as gathered, did not yield positive results. At the proceedings, on Monday, counsel to Alao, Mr. Sikiru Sanni, told the court that court processes had been served on Olubadan, Olubadan-in-Council and Oluyole Local Government, adding that it has been difficult to serve the court processes on the fourth defendant, Chief Dauda Odeyemi. He then filed an application that the court processes should be pasted on the walls of the houses of Odeyemi in his compound at Ejo village and his address at Kobomoje, Ibadan. The court, however, granted the application. According to him, the application was filed because Odeyemi, “who said he has been installed as the new Baale of Oloode has been evading service. He has been running away from service of court processes on him. “The case has been adjourned to March 7 for hearing of application. We will ensure that we paste the processes. Olubadan of Ibadanland, Olubadan-in-Council and Oluyole Local Government have been served. They have not appeared in court, but we are not bothered about the appearance. “But we are bothered about the fourth defendant. The pasting of court processes is to let him have knowledge of the case against him. The case cannot be decided if he is not served.” Sanni said the court bailiffs would carry out the assignment and they would submit proof of service to the court, saying: “Then, there will be no question of lack of fair hearing if he claims he did not see the court processes pasted on the walls of his houses.”