By Demola Balogun It was a perfect moment to raise glass to the Italian San Valentino hospitality culture, and Mediterranean cuisines, at the Eko Signature’s 1415 Restaurant and Garden on Tuesday, the Valentine’s Day. For true connoisseurs and their partners who sought a luxurious escape in an indulgent environment to renew family bonds and marital vows at Eko Hotels and Suites, an intercession of art, culinary craftsmanship and prestigious dining reached a new pinnacle with 5-course continental dinner, champagne Rose and Italian soprano live performance by petit diva, Catherine Nwankwo, David Nwaneni, and Adedayo Adenola. With live entertainment and monologue poetry recital to spark up feelings at the exclusive 1415 Italian Restaurant of Eko Signature, helmsman and culinary expert, Giaocchino Liguroi was spotted pacing the restaurant and well kept garden, treating guests to real intimate welcome and making them feel at home in an atmosphere of conviviality. With an imaginative cooking, remarkable wine list, obliging service and amazing line-up of Italian 5-course menu to tickle the taste buds of lovers and families, the night was nothing but spectacular. The main course dinner consisted of lamb ravioli; sauteed with lemon cream sauce and mint, making it tasty and spicy most especially after savouring the delicious, rich seafood Profumo Mediterraneo, Zuppa, D’astice, and Lobster Bizque. The luxurious style main course served at Eko Signature’s Valentine’s Ti Amo dinner specialty included nutrition’s combo of beef and grilled jumbo prawn, served with potato alla hasselbeck yam stick and vegetable medley; mushroom sauce, Fiji pink pepper corn sauce, blade pepper corn sauce, lemon and chili sauce, thus making it an excellent thoughtful choice to complement red wine, champagne or cognac. However, the exotic hazelnut coffee cream chocolate proved a perfect dessert which master pastry chef, Abdallah Outa dubbed ‘D’amore Ogive’ to stimulate the senses for the truly Cupid affair. The Valentine’s package was the result of an unprecedented collaboration between the marketing team led by Mrs. Iyadunni Gbadebo, outlet operating heads and masters of their crafts, Abhilash Cherian (F&B Manager) executive chef, Zuheir Ei Dika, head pastry chef, Abdallah Outa, and creative Giaocchino. They are indeed all committed to making the world a more nutritious and glamorous place. Interestingly, Diageo and Moet provided choice brands of champagne brut/rose/ Cognac/premium spirits for the weeklong celebration of love which Diageo country manager, Joe Nazzal believes would promote a stronger relationship with customers and Eko Hotels for a truly enjoyable experience. Across the various restaurants at the hotel, the Valentine’s Day was a full fledged extravaganza at Lagoon Breeze, The Grill Steakhouse, Skyline/Terrace, Red Chinese, and CrossRoads with upscale lounge bars and fine dining restaurant that reflect the discriminating tastes of their guests and customers, while plenty of glassware including large wine glasses, champagne flutes, basic highballs, rocks and Martini glasses made the line up at the well stocked 1415 bar.