From: Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Primate of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), The Most Reverend Nicholas Okoh, has called on the Federal Government to come up with policy to deliberately disarm the herdsmen who according to him, have been wreaking havoc in the country. Okoh made this call, on Wednesday, in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, during his opening address at the Church’s Standing Committee meeting. At the event, the clergy said it was unconstitutional and discriminatory for some individuals in the same country to bear arms freely, while others cannot. The Standing Committee comprises of the Primate, Archbishops, Bishops and the Home of Clergy and Laity of the Church. Speaking further, Okoh warned that if the situation was not put under control, it would continue to perpetuate crimes increasingly and threaten the peace of the nation. He decried the incessant killing by the herdsmen in the Southern Kaduna maintaining the herdsmen should be disarmed as quickly as possible to stop the loss of lives and wanton destruction of property. The Cleric, also urged the federal government to use all forces at its disposal to fight the menace of kidnapping noting the rising spate of kidnapping all over the country was alarming and worrisome adding “the apparent boom of kidnaping business is neither good for our society nor for the country’s economy”. He, however, commended the FG for its concerted efforts against terrorism, which has ensured peace and normalcy returned to the North East appealing to the government to sustain the security in the region until terrorism is totally eliminated. On the anti-corruption war, he commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s government for making it a duty to rid the country of corruption. Okoh said: “We identify with the government in this fight against corruption, recognising it as a noble cause. The Standing Committee, however, wishes to urge them to ensure that its scope is widespread across all tiers – federal, state and local governments levels – and across all boards and groups. If deemed necessary, an independent body can be created and charged with the task”. In his remark, Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, identified religious intolerance as one of the hindrances of development urging Nigerians to be more accommodating of one another’s religious beliefs.