From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), yesterday, said religion and ethnicity should be included in the form for the national census exercise which will take place next year in the South-East geo-political zone. MASSOB’s decision came barely two weeks after the National Population Commission (NPC) raised the alarm that the group’s activities might mare the census like it did in 2006. Giving assurances of its resolve to allow the exercise in the region, MASSOB leader, Uchenna Madu, however, gave conditions for the support. The movement, though not regretting its action in 2006, felt bad that most of the people in Igboland did not understand the reason for their actions. The statement read: “It is unfortunate that Igbo misunderstood our position during the 2006 national census where MASSOB urged Biafrans to boycott the exercise which later recorded a low turnout. “The 2006 national census exercise was part of the yardsticks for MASSOB to showcase our strength, popularity and acceptance of Igbo. Also, our primary aim of opposing the last census was to draw the attention of international communities, including United Nations, to the plight of Biafrans. Although the low turnout of South-East during the last census exercise was used by our enemies and government to undermine and shortchange the status of Igbo in Nigeria, it is part of our sacrifice for Biafra and MASSOB.” It, therefore, said its condition which would be of great benefit to all should be met, which included the inclusion of religion and ethnicity in the form. “As every revolutionary struggle for independence has its methodology and can adapt to any opportunity that will yield positive results, MASSOB is considering allowing next year’s national census because of the intervention of some prominent Igbo leaders and with the conditions MASSOB outlined which includes inclusion of religion to ascertain the actual number of Muslims, Traditionalists and Christians. The inclusion of religion will also enable us to know the number of oriental sects and religions in Nigeria. “Another condition is inclusion of ethnicity which will immensely assist in knowing the total number of indigenous people in Nigeria, it will also help in putting to rest the ethnic arguments of the largest Nigerian ethnic group or the major and minor tribes. MASSOB also insists that during the coming census exercise, every citizen residing outside his/her state of origin must be allowed to leave for his/her state for the counting, this also will enable us know the exact population of each state. Internationally, this is how census is being conducted.” Also, MASSOB berated its former leader and now leader of the Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike for his statement that Biafra would be actualised without gunshots. “From inception of the current struggle for Biafra actualisation and restoration, MASSOB, then under Uwazuruike who was expelled on November 30, 2015 at MASSOB headquarters, Okwe, lost about 1,000 members through gunshots by Nigeria security agents including hundreds of deaths of IPOB members through the same gunshots in many cities of Biafra land. How can Uwazuruike who claimed to be championing the cause of Biafra confidently and boldly declare that Biafra will be actualised without gunshots, what other gunshots did he want or referring to? “Is he referring to the former war of 1967-1970? He has no regard for the people that died through these gunshots, is it because his children and wife who are enjoying the comfort of his ill gotten wealth abroad have never experienced gunshots? Nigeria has already declared war against the people of Biafra, we have lost thousands of our people through gunshots by Nigeria Army, Police, DSS, armed Fulani herdsmen, Islamic fundamentalists, Customs Service etc. “MASSOB knows that Uwazuruike will not want or like Biafrans rising in defence of themselves or engaging in a war with Nigeria because he doesn’t want to lose his numerous investments in Owerri, Port Harcourt, Lagos and Abuja. Our people are in detention, many are lost, maimed and killed by gunshots of our oppressors, yet, a forgotten person said there will be no gunshots.”  MASSOB gives conditions for 2018 national census From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka  The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), yesterday said it has resolved to allow and support the National Census exercise which will take place next year in the South-East geo-political zone. MASSOB decision came barely two weeks after the National Population Commission (NPC) raised alarm that MASSOB activities might mare the census like it did in 2006. But giving assurances of its resolve to allow the exercise in the region, MASSOB leader, Uchenna Madu, in a statement made available to newsmen in Awka, however, gave conditions for the support. The Movement, though not regretting its action in 2006, felt bad that most of the people in Igboland did not understand the reason for their actions. The statement read: “It is very unfortunate that Ndigbo misunderstood our position during the 2006 National census where MASSOB urged Biafrans to boycott the exercise which later recorded a very low turnout.  “The 2006 national census exercise was part of the yardsticks for MASSOB to showcase our strength, popularity and acceptance of Ndigbo. Also, our primary aim of opposing the last census is to draw the attention of the international communities including United Nations to the plight of Biafrans. Though the low turnout of South-East during the last census exercise was used by our enemies and government to undermine and shortchanged the status of Ndigbo in Nigeria. It is part of our sacrifice for Biafra and MASSOB.” It, therefore, said its condition which would be of great benefit to all should be met, which included religion and ethnicity in the form. “As every revolutionary struggle for independence has its methodology and can adapt to any opportunity that will yield positive results, MASSOB is considering allowing next year National census because of the intervention of some prominent Igbo leaders and with the conditions MASSOB outlined which includes inclusion of religion to ascertain the actual number of Muslims, Traditionalists, Christians. The inclusion of religion will also enable us to know the number of oriental sects and religions in Nigeria. “Another condition is inclusion of ethnicity which will immensely assist in knowing the total number of indigenous people that comprise their tribe in Nigeria, it will also help in putting to rest the ethnic arguments of the largest Nigerian ethnic group or the major and minor tribes. MASSOB also insists that during the coming census exercise, every citizen residing outside his/her state of origin must be allowed to leave for his/her state for the counting, this also will enable us know the exact population of each state. Internationally, this is how census is being conducted.” Also, MASSOB berated its former leader and now leader of the Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike for his statement that Biafra would be actualised without gunshots. “From inception of the current struggle for Biafra actualisation and restoration, MASSOB, then under Uwazuruike who was expelled on November 30, 2015 at MASSOB headquarters, Okwe, lost about 1,000 members through gunshots by Nigeria security agents including hundreds of deaths of IPOB members through the same gunshots in many cities of Biafra land. How can Uwazuruike who claimed to be championing the cause of Biafra confidently and boldly declare that Biafra will be actualised without gunshots, what other gunshots did he want or referring to? “Is he referring to the former war of 1967-1970? He has no regard for the people that died through these gunshots, is it because his children and wife who are enjoying the comfort of his ill gotten wealth abroad have never experienced gunshots? Nigeria has already declared war against the people of Biafra, we have lost thousands of our people through gunshots by Nigeria Army, Police, DSS, armed Fulani herdsmen, Islamic fundamentalists, Customs Service etc. “MASSOB knows that Uwazuruike will not want or like Biafrans rising in defence of themselves or engaging in a war with Nigeria because he doesn’t want to lose his numerous investments in Owerri, Port Harcourt, Lagos and Abuja. Our people are in detention, many are lost, maimed and killed by gunshots of our oppressors, yet, a forgotten person said there will be no gunshots.”