Another weekend of German Bundesliga football is here again, and Nigerians will stay glued to their television for the live matches, courtesy of StarTimes and HS Media. The live telecast will come from the studios of HotSports/HS Media Group in Lagos. Bayern Munich featuring David Alaba would want to extend its lead on top of the table when the club visits Hertha Berlin. The Bavarians, coming from two successive victories (2-0 against Ingolstadt at the Bundesliga, and 5-1 against Arsenal midweek at the UCL), Bayern would love to extend their impressive form over Hertha Berlin, having won 18 of its last 19 meetings. The Munich team last beat them 3-0 in September. Bayer 04 Leverkusen was looking to build on their emphatic victory over third-placed Eintracht Frankfurt last weekend, as they visit FC Augsburg for the Matchday 21 opener on Friday evening. Former Super Eagles captain Austin Jay Jay was a star feature for Frankfurt in his days in the Bundesliga. The mood at Augsburg has taken a turn for the worse following their Matchday 20 game. Going into their game against FSV Mainz 05 last weekend, Die Fuggerstädter were on a two-match winning run for the first time in the season, however, a 2-0 loss quickly dampened their high spirits as well as dropping them to 13th. Leverkusen’s dream of Champions League football was given a new lease of life last weekend following Die Werkself’s 3-0 victory against Eintracht Frankfurt. The man Roger Schmidt had to thank was none other than Mexican star Javier ‘Chicharito’ Hernandez. The striker has netted three goals in his last two outings, and more goals of that quality could see Bayer 04 close down the seven-point gap to a Champions League qualification berth in no time. Hamburger SV on their part will be looking for their third consecutive league victory as the welcome an in-form but travel-weary SC Freiburg to the Volksparkstadion, on Saturday. Hamburg have been on quite the winning streak as of late. A 1-0 win against Bayer 04 Leverkusen and a 3-0 victory against RB Leipzig have seen Markus Gisdol’s side climb from 17th to 15th and out of the relegation zone. Kyriakos Papadopolous has scored in both victories over his former clubs, will his personal streak continue? As the only side who are yet to drop points in 2017, can Borussia Mönchengladbach continue their impressive form when they host RB Leipzig on Sunday afternoon. New Foals Coach Dieter Hecking is making an impact at the club as they aim for their fourth consecutive victory in all competitions when they welcome promoted side Leipzig on Sunday afternoon. Wins against Bayer 04 Leverkusen, SC Freiburg and SV Werder Bremen have seen Gladbach charge to the top of the table for points won in 2017, even edging overall leaders FC Bayern München into second. With such an enthused side, can Hecking’s first impression continue in such a positive manner? 