…Says we’re not politicians but freedom fighters From Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under the leadership of Mr. Nnamdi Kanu yesterday warned those trying to draw it into the forthcoming Anambra governorship campaign to desist from such action or face sanction. The group said its members are not politicians but freedom fighters diligently pursuing the restoration of ancient nation of Biafra with truth and honesty and would not allow itself to be derailed from this divine pursuit of liberating its people from the shackles of bondage and slavery from Nigeria come what may. In a statement by IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Mr. Emma Powerful, the group said it had observed with dismay how some “shamelessly unscrupulous individuals” were trying desperately to link the name of IPOB to party politics in Nigeria. It read in part: “The public is hereby warned to stay away from such groups and individuals because such adventure had always ended in shame. IPOB is not and can never be part of any electioneering campaign in the Luggardian contraption we have come to know as Nigeria. Anybody telling you IPOB is supporting any political party is a deceiver and should be stoned. “IPOB under the leadership of the prophet of our time, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, is not part of these treacherous anti-Biafra meetings going on in the homes of some washed out politicians and can never be part of it. “We are not in the business of campaigning for the restructuring of Nigeria. We are 100 per cent focused on the puritanical pursuit of the restoration and liberation of Biafra from tyranny. We cannot be part of those who are claiming to be IPOB in whatever customary guise or assumed elders who have spent their whole lives serving Hausa Fulani interests. “They have achieved nothing in their lifetime towards the liberation of our people worth referencing. They have continued to shamelessly tag IPOB to their myriad of names in the hope of misleading our people into following them into their evil Nigerian politics. “The Elders Council established by our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has been dissolved since 2014 when it was discovered that these ‘elders’ were campaigning for the same Buhari and his All Progressives Congress to take over Biafraland. “We stopped them then and we shall stop them now no matter the party they intend to use to achieve their satanic purpose disguised as patriotism for Biafra. “These criminals keep dancing from one project of shame to another have been using the revered name of IPOB to dupe desperate politicians. First, these criminals said Biafra will come by legal method. When that failed, they said it would come through diplomatic means.” it alleged. “Now that their much vaunted diplomatic approach has fallen flat, they have opted for what they call political process. This is their last ditch desperate attempt to immerse themselves in the sell-out politics of Nigeria. We IPOB say we are not part of it. “Therefore, we would like to warn again that the name IPOB is hallowed and cannot be involved with Nigeria politics. “IPOB family members worldwide are not politicians but freedom fighters diligently pursuing the restoration of ancient nation of Biafra with truth and honesty. We are not going to derail from this divine pursuit of liberating our people from the shackles of bondage and slavery from Nigeria come what may,” the group said.