From: Sola Ojo, Kaduna The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has urged employers of labour not to turn back corps members posted to their establishments. The call came on the heels of the completion of 2016 batch ‘B’ 21-day orientation course. Making the appeal during the winding up ceremony, on Monday, at NYSC permanent orientation camp in Kaduna, was Kaduna State Coordinator of the scheme, Mallam Bello Ballama. He revealed that more than half of corps members deployed to the state had earlier picked redeployment forms but later withdrew same after much persuasion by critical stakeholders. According to him, “I want to enjoin our employers not to reject corps members posted to them. More than half of them sought redeployment when they came to the camp but we were able to calm their nerves which made them to change their mind and decided to stay in order to support the change agenda of this administration. “Base on this reason, it behoves on our corps employers to consider this and appreciate these young Nigerian graduates to serve in their establishments within the next eleven months or there about. They have a lot if potential in them that will add value to your establishments,” he pleaded. The Coordinator also requested the state government under the leadership of Governor Nasir El-Rufai to speed up the ongoing phased renovation of existing facilities on camp just as he asked for provision of additional structures especially hostels to meet up with the ever-increasing corps members deployed to the state. Declaring the orientation course closed, Commissioner for Youth, Development and Culture, Daniel Dan-Auta, who stood in for the governor said, the state government had already taken comprehensive assessment of the camp and the contractors had already started working. “The NYSC has touched lives not only in Kaduna but in all states across the country. We are therefore ready to support the scheme to ensure the full real8zation of its set goals and objectives. In line with this we have commenced phase by phase renovation of dilapidated facilities on this camp to provide a more conducive environment”, the commissioner said.