Three members of the House of Representatives exonerated of sexual misconduct allegations levelled against them by the United States Embassy in Nigeria may have contacted some lawyers to handle their $1 billion suit against the American government. The lawyers are to file the suit in the US, while the lawmakers will continue to communicate with them through electronic means from Nigeria, since they are barred for now from entering the US. The affected members are House Deputy Chairman, Committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream); Mr. Terse Mark-Gbillah, elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in  Benue; Mr. Samuel Ikon of the Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom; and Mr. Mohammed Garba-Gololo, also of the  APC in  Bauchi State. A former US ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. James Entwistle, had accused the three of sexual misconduct during a visit to the US last year April, prompting the Nigerian legislature to call for an investigation. The House had exonerated the lawmakers in October 2016 after a report by its Joint Committees on Ethics/Privileges and Foreign Relations, found no wrongdoing on their part. A spokesman for the lawyers, said that the lawyers had been identified and that efforts were on to finalise consultations on the suit. He neither gave the names of the lawyers nor the firms from where they would be hired. The spokesman, identified as Mark-Gbillah also admitted that the lawmakers’ US visas revoked in the wake of the allegations had yet to be restored. However, he stated that the members could still travel to the US in the course of the hearing of the suit if a court order sought to have them brought to the US physically. Mark-Gbillah said, “We have identified lawyers willing to take the case and are currently planning for the required funds to initiate the action (for damages.) “We will communicate with our lawyers via other media for now, but we can be granted entry by the court if we are required to appear in person. We won’t be willing to disclose the costs at this time.”   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 