A retired professor in the  Department of Agricultural Engineering, University of Ibadan, Emmanuel Lucas, says  forests have  the potentials to rescue Nigeria from economic  recession. Lucas made the remark at the 39th annual conference of the Forestry Association of Nigeria (FAN) held in Ibadan on the theme “Harnessing the Uniqueness of Forests for Sustainable Development in a Diversifying Economy.’’ He said if policies were put in place to dedicate a certain percentage of land for trees and flower production in urban areas, the favourable effects would impact positively on the economy. “Forests are finitely renewable and can supply raw materials for industries; there is no construction material that comes near wood in low energy requirements for exploitation, processing and  installation. “While petroleum, cooking gas failed Nigeria, inflicted heavy environmental pollution on the country, forests can take over; it has  little negative impact on the country’s environment,” he said. The FAN foundation member said the functions of trees were so vital that tree planting must be encouraged.. He urged governments  and estate bodies to continue to patronise  private entrepreneurs engaged in seedling raising. Also speaking, Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, represented by the Special Adviser on Agriculture, Prof. Adekunle Olatupo,  said the theme was relevant, coming at a  time   when the country’s economy had  declined due to reliance on oil. Ajimobi noted that the development of non-timber forest  produce would generate employment and  boost  the country’s GDP. He said  forests had  been identified as  factors that could  mitigate climate change, urging  the Federal Government and  other stakeholders  to partner  in harnessing   forest   potentials. Earlier, FAN National President, Prof. Labode Popoola,  said forest resources were unique and  interwoven with all other creatures of life. He expressed dissatisfaction that the  resources had  been misused  and called for a positive change. “The city of Ibadan is everything to forestry in Nigeria as the FAN was founded in the city years ago,” Popoola said. Also speaking, the National Organising Committee Chairman, Dr Ayoola Akinwole,  said the association was addressing  major issues germane to Africa. “For our country to move forward there is need to diversify  to other sources  of revenue  other than oil. “We brought researchers and  scientists from West Africa to discuss the theme. “ The conference proceedings have over 109 papers;  they are rich enough to address all the major issues,” Akinwole said. The highlight  of the event was the   inauguration of the executive council of Oyo State chapter of  FAN. (Source: NAN)