From: Damiete Braide As part of its efforts for global expansion and consolidate its presence in Europe, Wakanow, Africa’s fast-rising tourism company and Nigeria’s frontline online travel company, has announced plans to launch operations in United Kingdom (UK). This is coming barely months after the company launched DestinationsAfrica(R), a global booking platform that aggregates the best of African holidays from over 23 African countries. Founder/Group Managing Director, Wakanow, Obinna Ekezie said: “The new addition to the fast-growing travel company will serve European countries and demonstrate its capacity to compete favorably on the global stage.” He explained that currently, a good number of bookings on the Wakanow Nigeria booking portal, were coming from the UK and other countries outside of Nigeria and it was therefore a natural progression for Wakanow to cater for this market. “We are very delighted about the forthcoming launch of Wakanow UK, and this excitement stems from our conviction that this addition has the capacity to offer something different to the European market when it comes to travelling into Africa. Our protocol services into Africa is built on very strong relationships and will ensure our prospective customers get the most hitch-free and hassle-free movement in and out of the continent. Wakanow has horned her skills in African travel over the last 8 years and will bring that to bear in not only offering best priced deals but making sure that her interactions with these travelers will deliver a more positive narrative for African businesses”. He further stated that, “Not only are we going to replicate the same excellent customer service for which the Wakanow brand is known for, but we are also going to take the lead in expanding the frontiers of travel and driving significant traffic to Africa through our broad mix of custom-fit and themed vacation offerings available on our DestinationsAfrica platform. We will leverage our vast knowledge of the African space and her wealth of untapped destinations to create exclusive travel products that offer fresh and incredible experiences for our customers. The Wakanow UK launch will herald the opening of several other Wakanow offices across Africa, with Wakanow Kenya and Wakanow South Africa already under way. Riding on the back of advanced technology, Wakanow will “switch on” her online booking portals in six other African countries including Uganda, Rwanda, Senegal, Ivory Coast and Tanzania.  