by Monica Iheakam Wikki Tourists captain,  Mustapha Ibrahim is talking tough ahead of their CAF  Confederation Cup match against Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces (RSLAF) FC. Wikki lost 0-2 to their Sierra Leonean opponents on Sunday at the Siaka Steven Stadium in Freetown, but Ibrahim is exuding confidence that the Bauchi Elephants , will make it to the next stage of Confederation Cup.   Ibrahim admitted that Wikki  did not perform optimally in Freetown but will make amends in the reverse fixture on Sunday in Bauchi. “After the game at RSLAF FC it dawned on us that we did not represent the country well. However, we equally know that the loss is not the end of the road for us as far as the CAF Confederation Cup is concerned. “We know there is another chance for us to make amends as well as redeem our qualification campaign. “We are convinced we will get the required three or four unreplied goals here on our home ground in Bauchi on Sunday. “Nigerians should still keep firm hope with us as we are determined to make them proud. “The loss to RSLAF FC does not mean that we played badly. We played quite well but perhaps luck was not in our favour. “The Sierra Leonean side were not fantastic just lucky but I’m sure the coaches would have corrected the shortcomings to put us in good stead to unsettle the opponents on Sunday. The reverse fixture will be held on Sunday at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium (ATBS) in Bauchi as the aggregate winners will confront the Malian side, FC Djoliba, in the next stage of the competition. Meanwhile, FC Ifeanyiubah today left  Nigeria for Port Said,  ahead of its Sunday’s CAF Confederation Cup preliminary round, second leg fixture against Egyptian club, Al-Masry SC. The Nnewi-based side hold a slim 1-0 advantage going into the clash but Igwe was confident his team will scale through the hurdle. “It’s a pity we couldn’t score more than one goal in Nnewi last weekend, but that won’t stop us from making it to the next round,” he stated. “They will have the advantage of playing in front of their fans, but that won’t stop us from getting a good result.”