From: MAGNUS EZE, Abuja The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), on Monday, called for the immediate recall of the Nigerian envoy to South Africa and evacuation of Nigerians from the country over the renewed xenophobic attacks on African nationals, especially Nigerians. This comes as the Centre Against Brutality and for Safety of Journalists in Africa (CABSOJA) urged the Federal Government to consider severe diplomatic sanctions against South Africa to save the situation as further killing may lead to a major crisis. The TUC, in a statement, by its President, Mr. Bobboi Kaigama and General Secretary, Mr. Musa-Lawal Ozigi, described as ‘unfortunate’ that South Africa had forgotten in a hurry how Nigeria and the rest of the world rallied and mobilised support for that country during its apartheid experience. The labour union further wondered why these attacks had lasted unabated without any decisive action by the Jacob Zuma-led Government, when over 100 South African companies were operating in Nigeria freely with virtually all of them seriously involved in anti-labour practices. The statement which recalled that efforts to unionise MTN and others were to no avail, noted that this cannot happen in their country. Even as TUC condemned crimes in all its forms and support punishment for those found culpable, it regretted that in in this case no one had mentioned any case of crime; but instead “it is rather a case of a country whose freedom we staked our lives, financed and spent other resources to fight for and today we get xenophobia as returns.” “They own several multi-billion dollar investments on our soils yet, we co-exist despite all odds. This killing and dehumanisation of Nigerians must stop. Not anymore. This must stop! If killing and maiming of Nigerians is the sacrifice required for us to maintain a cordial relationship, we are not willing to make it anymore,” TUC stated, adding that the African Union (AU) and United Nations (UN) should caution South Africans and let them know that no individuals or country had monopoly of violence. Co-founder of CABSOJA, Barrister Ugochukwu Ezeikel-Hanks also condemned the attitude of South African Government which according to him suggested connivance or direct approval of the actions of their citizens. “We call for immediate sanctions by the African Union and equally demand that the Nigerian Government (Nigerian citizens being most victims) take immediate diplomatic actions against South Africa by temporary closing their embassy/mission in Nigeria pending the resolution of the issue and a clear undertaking from the South African Government to protect Nigerian people and their investments in that country,” the rights group stated. Nigerian students had last week protested against the attacks in South Africa and threatened to ground South African businesses in the country. 