Liverpool, Tottenham in crunchy tie BY PAUL EREWUBA The English Premier League (EPL) enters week 25 this weekend with matches slated for today and tomorrow at different cities of England. League leaders, Chelsea will be guests of Hull City when both sides meet at the KCOM Stadium tomorrow. Today however, Liverpool lost 2-3 to Swansea City last week, a shocking defeat that left the Reds’ fans asking questions. Swansea lifted themselves off the bottom of the Premier League table and dealt a huge blow to Liverpool’s title hopes with a thrilling win at Anfield. But the Reds’ manager Jurgen Klopp was quick to defend his wards, insisting that his players’ attitude is not to blame for Liverpool’s continued slump against the so-called lesser sides – but admits he can see why fans are making suggestions. The Reds’ embarrassing 2-0 defeat at Hull was their fourth of the campaign, with Burnley, Bournemouth and Swansea also taking full points off Klopp’s side. With these results, Liverpool now finds themselves with a real battle to qualify for the Champions League. Indeed, all eyes will be on Anfield with Tottenham Hotspurs taking on Liverpool. Tottenham won 1-0 against Middlesbrough in last Saturday’s match to cut Chelsea’s advantage back down to nine points Nodoubt, a win for Spurs would temporarily cut Chelsea’s gap to six points, though Jurgen Klopp – winless in five – needs a result to prevent Mourinho’s United from leapfrogging them on the table. Football Pundits, who have continued to analyse the EPL, say although, Chelsea may have taken a giant leap towards the Premier League title, but the race for the top four is certainly heating up. Antonio Conte’s Blues beat Arsenal 3-1 at Stamford Bridge to open up a 12-point lead at the top of the table in last Saturday’s encounter, while Manchester City and Manchester United both won to leave just two points between fourth-placed Arsenal and Jose Mourinho’s Red Devils in sixth. Tomorrow’s action sees Chelsea head to Burnley. Burnley has shown strong character at home lately and the Clarets home invincibility is key in today’s outing. Antonio Conte’s Blues passed a major test in the title race last week as they secured a 1-1 midweek draw at Liverpool before beating Arsenal 3-1 at Stamford Bridge to leave their rivals’ hopes in tatters. And Chelsea sit nine points ahead of second-placed Tottenham heading into Tomorrow’s clash against Burnley at Turf Moor Stadium, but the Clarets may well provide a stern test for Conte’s men. The Sean Dyche managed side sit 12th on the table largely due to their home form. With the February schedule dominated by various Cup competitions, this weekend’s action could be key – especially for Manchester United, who host Watford in their last league tie of the month before embarking on Europa Cup, FA Cup and EFL Cup journeys. Arsenal can gain ground on their top four rivals against Hull today, but Arsene Wenger’s Gunners must be wary of a resurgent Tigers side – led by Marco Silva – who has taken four points from a possible six off Manchester United and Liverpool in their last two outings.