•President will return sooner that expected, says Adesina From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye and Olamide Babatunde Acting President Yemi Osinbajo has praised the Nigeria Police for their handling of Monday’s antigovernment protests. Hundreds of Nigerians in at least three cities took to the streets on Monday to condemn and seek a timely solution to worsening economic crisis in the country. The protesters lampooned the administration for failing to address inflation that has seen food prices increase in the last few months. Other issues such as corruption, insecurity and alleged impunity of the Buhari administration were also raised by the demonstrators. On Monday, Osinbajo told protesters,  government heard them “loud and clear,” and said in a statement, yesterday, that government is committed to “continuous engagement” with the people to explain government policies, receive advice and criticism. “I commend the Inspector General of Police (Ibrahim Idris) and his officers for handling the protests with professionalism and respect for the rights of citizens. “We are committed to a continuous engagement with our people to explain government policies, receive advice and criticism,” Osinbajo said in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Laolu Akande. The acting president said cabinet ministers have gone round eight states, so far, holding town hall meetings, with the most recent held on Monday, in Ilorin. “There will be more of such meetings in the other states that are yet to be visited. “With complete focus on improving the economy every day, the recession will soon be history,” he said. Monday’s protest was the first major one against the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, which came to power in May 2015. Meanwhile, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, has said Buhari will return sooner than expected. Adesina said this against the backdrop of anxiety on the president’s health. Buhari’s media aide made this known on a television programme in Lagos, yesterday. “The president will not only get well soon but will return to the country soon,asking Nigerians not to worry. “In a letter to the National Assembly, the president did not disclose when he is coming back but, the president may be coming back sooner than people think.” Buhari left Nigeria on January 19, 2017, for a 10-day medical vacation in the United Kingdom. He also commented on the pro and anti governments protests which Nigerians had waited for two weeks. Protesters from both sides  converged in major cities of the country and railed against some government policies. at the Unity fountain in Abuja to argue opposing views of the Buhari led administration. On speculations about the health status of President Muhammadu Buhari  more explanations from the  reveals that President will return sooner than expected. This is after the National Assembly was notified of his extended vacation which did not state when the president would return. Regardless, this was in adherence to the Doctors orders that he complete and get the results of medical examinations conducted on him. Addison in response to all sides has called for calm  saying their protests have been acknowledged. He also reminded the protesters that security agencies have a responsibility to maintain law and order. So while the citizens protest which they have the right to do , “the law enforcement agencies must also make sure that law and order does not breakdown”. On the fight against corruption, which was raised by the protesters, he lamented that corruption is a timeless and endless allegation in Nigeria. “All subsequent government also have those allegations except those who didn’t fight corruption at all. ” The fact that those allegations are coming up, it should not surprise anybody. “The government will not take us to where we were before, it was a false life, we were living a false life, we were running a false economy, everything about Nigeria was false. “Rather, the government will build a new foundation which it is building now, so that the super structure that is built on the foundation will be enduring and that is what this government is doing” he added.