By  Tayo Ogunbiyi Before now, pop songster, Innocent Idibia, widely known as Tuface, cut the picture of an apolitical person whose chief concern is his music, fame and wealth. This writer has followed Tuface’s musical career since he was with the defunct Plantation Boyz. Tuface was actually the true face of the now rested Plantation Boyz which made waves a few years back on the local music scene. As the three artistes that made up the defunct group went on solo run, it is Tuface that turned out to be an instant hit of the lot. Like the maverick late Afrobeat, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, since he released the blockbuster single, African Queen, Tuface has continued to churn out one monster hit after the other. Till date, he remains, perhaps, the most decorated Nigerian artiste of all time, consistently winning laurels both at home and abroad. Tuface’s strong point is his stunning sweet voice and his look. Oh! How amazingly irresistible is his voice! But then, as alluring as his voice is, so also is his smashing look. It is, indeed, on the latter platform that Tuface once trended significantly, with what a comedian once described as his acclaimed contribution to the country’s growing population through the kids he has raised from an assortment of women. So, all along, one’s perception of Tuface is that of a happy going, fun -oving wealthy artiste who is logically content with his comfort zone. However, recent development from the stable of the wave making artiste has changed all that. The crowd pulling artiste roughened not a few feathers when he recently announced that he would be leading a nationwide protest, against what he termed “obnoxious policies” implemented by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. In an unusual dabble into political activism characterized of the Fela Anikulapo days, the Benue-born artiste took to his Instagram page to confirm that the protest will hold both in Abuja and Lagos. 2face wrote: “A call for good governance….. We the people are tired. We can no longer continue with all of you. All your excuses and mistakes are not funny. We do not wish to continue with a system and government that is not working but afflicting the people. “There’s need for Nigerians to rise against what is happening in this country having waited patiently for the legislators that were elected to represent the people to no avail” Wow! Coming from Tuface, this is, perhaps, a most intriguing statement. Though, Tuface eventually called off the # I Stand with Nigeria protest, citing security challenges based on strong feelers that the event might be hijacked by interests not aligned with the original idea behind the protest, but one thinks it is a good development in our political system for such seemingly comfortable and famous artistes of Tuface stature to openly spearhead and identify with such political cause that could hold government accountable to the governed. The concept of democracy has received varying definitions and interpretations from scholars and political observers, depending on the ideological leaning or interest of the contending scholars. However, there are certain basic features of democracy that serve as consensus among the contending perspectives. One of such is accountability. Every democratically elected government is accountable to the people, to whom it owes its existence. These people, therefore, need to be consistently told how public funds are being spent and how the mandate given is being utilised. Of course, this could be a two-way thing. If the people think that the government isn’t doing enough to advance their cause, through acceptable democratically permissible platforms, they could convey their grievances or feelings. Globally, this is one of the hallmarks of democracy. Recently, in the United States of America, many world famous artistes collaborated with diverse interest groups in a nationwide protest against the Trump administration. The beauty of it is that the protesters had their way while government equally utilised the occasion to further clarify perceived areas of misunderstanding. Communication is of essence in a democracy and a protest, when it is properly organised and clinically coordinated, is a veritable means of communication. Unfortunately, in our clime, it is often seen as an affront against government. Thus, it is not uncommon to hear government officials affirm that a protest is being sponsored by perceived enemies of government. But then, supposing this is even true, it means the opposition is alive to its responsibility of keeping a ruling government in check. One has heard backers and officials of government in Abuja posit that the government isn’t responsible for the current hardship in the country and that it is actually working hard to change things. While one might not necessarily dispute or agree with this assertion, it isn’t enough reason to dissuade Nigerians from protesting because it is their right. Is it too early to put the Federal Government on its toes? Is it fair to put so much pressure on government when it is obvious it inherited lots of stinking baggage? The answer is simple: A docile public constitutes a greater threat to democracy. The more people ask questions about their government, the better for our democracy. On the alleged claim by security agencies that the botched Tuface protest might breach public security, it is important to stress that while the people have a right to protest, the security organs equally have the onerous task of ensuring security. It should, however, be emphasised that the beauty of protests  as a means of communication in a democracy cannot really be well utilised if it becomes unruly, uncoordinated and chaotic. This way, the message is lost and the effort is wasted. As for Tuface’s backing out of the protest at the last minute, it should not be seen as a show of cowardice. Neither should it be seen as being out-muscled by security agencies. Like the artiste said on his Instagram page, if there is verifiable proof that the protest could lead to pointless loss of lives, would it not be counterproductive?   Meanwhile, it is quite fascinating that Tuface actually has many faces! Ogunbiyi writes from Lagos 