From Joe Effiong, Uyo Akwa Ibom chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described  the former gubernatorial aspirant of the party, Senator John Akpanudoedeghe as the Peoples democratic Party (PDP) mole in the party. APC recently expelled Udoedeghe citing his anti-party activities as reasons. Reaffirming the expulsion during a press conference, the state chairman of the party, Amadu Attai in company with the secretary, Effiong Etok and other officials, said one of the anti-party activities of Udoedeghe carried out against APC was urging his supporters to work for the electoral victory of the PDP in the 2015 general election. “We wish to categorically declare here that Akpanudoedeghe never contributed in any way towards the success of the APC in Akwa Ibom State both in the 2015 presidential and gubernatorial elections. Truth be told, he openly and boldly asked a motley of what remains of his supporters to work for the electoral victory of the PDP candidates in that general election. “Akpanudoedeghe’s belligerence pointedly began when he lost the 2015 governorship primaries of our party to Obong Umana Okon Umana. Ever since, he has wilfully constituted himself into a cog in the wheel of the party’s progress, doing everything within his reach to ensure its failure. “It is on record that when notified of the sundry harmful anti-party activities perpetrated by Akpanudoedeghe, the APC national leaders and stakeholders initiated various reconciliatory moves. And again, our dear senator, in his usual way, scorned the gestures outright,” Attai said. The party chairman said the summary expulsion of Akpanudoedeghe from APC was done in strict compliance with the provisions of the APC constitution, as amended since the process began at his Ward 6, Uyo, where he was earlier suspended. “This was followed by a subsequent ratification and a recommendation for his total expulsion by the Uyo chapter executive. There is no doubt that these chain of events are concrete proofs of the snator’s total alienation and disconnect from his immediate Ward (Uyo Ward 6) and chapter.” Reacting, Akpanudoedeghe described his purported expulsion from the party as sham, saying the state working committee had no power to expel him based on the party constitution. “They do not have power to expel a ward chairman, not to talk about a Board of Trustees member. Let me tell you that they have no power, no authority to expel me from the party,” he said. He alleged that those talking of his expulsion from the party were not APC members.