From: Molly Kilete, Abuja Soldiers on internal security operations, in Borno State, have arrested two suspected suicide bombers including a female while attempting to blow up their base in the area. One of the suicide bomber, was said to have been arrested at Dala village, on Tuesday, while attempting to cross through the troops forward defences, while the other, a female, was arrested between Cimari and No Man’s land. A statement from the Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier-General Sani Usman, said one of the suicide bomber who tried to attack troops location and defied several warning shots from the soldiers who spotted him from a distance as he continued to approach their location was eventually gunned down. Usman in the statement said “Troops of 251 Battalion, 7 Division Nigerian Army on Operation LAFIYA DOLE deployed at Dala village on Tuesday 18th July 2017 at about 10.00pm intercepted a suspected suicide bomber who attempted to cross through their forward defences. “Upon several challenges and warning shots the suspect refused to halt.  The suspect who still continued to approach towards the troops location was immediately neutralised. “The Borno State Emergency Management Agency and the International Committee of the Red Cross have since been contacted to evacuate the suspect remains. “It will be recalled that three days ago, on Sunday 16th July 2017, our troops deployed at Mammanti, also averted another catastrophe when they intercepted and neutralised 2 female Boko Haram terrorists suicide bombers who tried to infiltrate and attack the village through troops parapet at about 10.15pm. Similarly, the troops of 251 Battalion also intercepted another female Boko Haram terrorists suicide bomber on Monday 17th July 2017 at about 1.49am between Cimari and No Man’s Land. “This great  efforts of the troops helped to save valuable lives and property. “The public is please requested to continue to volunteer information to the military and other security agencies to help preempt suicide bombings and other atrocities by the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists”.