From Noah Ebije, Kaduna. The media adviser to former Vice President Namadi Sambo, Umar Sani has said that security operatives were on fault-finding mission to the ex-vice-president’s house in order to implicate him. Sani said one of the plans of the security agents was to plant an incriminating object in the house to give the former number two citizen a bad name to hang him, having raided the residence for the fifth time. This was contained in a statement issued yesterday by the media Aide. Officials of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), last Wednesday raided the Alimi road house of the former vice president, without finding anything incriminating against him. The statement said, “The recent desperation exhibited by some security agencies in carrying out a raid on an unoccupied residence blocking all entry and exit points, in a commando-style and coming along with a bullion van speaks volumes of the clandestine intention of the security operatives. “It is therefore worrisome to note that the consistency with which the searches occurred and the intervals between them portray a desire of a fault-finding mission. We are apprehensive that a repeat of such episode will not be surprising if an incriminating object is planted in his residence in order to willfully and deliberately incriminate him. “It is against this background that we wish to draw the attention of the unsuspecting members of the public to this phenomenon.The desperation of some of the security agencies is glaring by the number of times such searches were conducted and still counting. We hope it is not a way to try to give a dog a bad name in order to hang it. “Late afternoon of Wednesday,  28th of June 2017, the Alimi Road, Kaduna un-occupied residence of the former Vice President Arc Mohammed Namadi Sambo, GCON, was invaded by security operatives armed with a search warrant, who conducted a forensic search of the entire residence. “Initially, we were at a loss as to their identity but later discovered that they were operatives from the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC). “This raid brings to five, the number of times the residence was searched within a period of six months and on each occasion valuable fittings were deliberately destroyed. “It is worthy of note to state that no such brazen attempts were made at any point, either at his Link Road Kaduna residence, or his Abuja apartment, which he presently occupies.” “As the visit of the operatives was unscheduled, the reasons for the search were not specifically stated. However, the outcome of the search was made known. At the end of the whole exercise, the officers, who carried out the search were satisfied that nothing incriminating was found. “As a law-abiding citizen, the former Vice-President did not raise any alarm in the previous invasions in view of the fact that he has nothing to hide”. 