Senate President Bukola Saraki has received with deep shock the news of the death of elder statesman, the Dan Masanin Kano, Alhaji (Dr.) Yusuf Maitama Sule, and said that with his death, Nigeria has lost a great nationalist. Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, described the late Sule as a detribalised Nigerian who spoke truth to power at all times during his lifetime. He described the late Sule as an avowed and highly respected personality, core democrat, fearless politician, exceptional orator and an accomplished public servant. While commiserating with the immediate family of the deceased, the Emir of Kano, the Government and people of Kano State over the irreparable loss, the Senate President noted that it was gratifying that the late Sule lived long to, as one of those who fought for the nation’s independence, witness the modest achievements of Nigeria as a nation. As a mark of respect for the late Dan Masanin Kano, Saraki urged Nigerians to toe the path of dialogue in addressing their grievances and eschew ethnic tensions as embodied by the late former minister, saying that, “this is the highest respect we will pay to his legacies”. He called on both the Federal and the Kano State Governments to immortalize the great icon of peace and an advocate of justice and fairness. He stated that the deceased would be sorely missed for his  knowledge, political sagacity, philanthropy, oratory and courage. Saraki said: “The news of the demise of Alhaji Maitama Sule, came to me with shock. This is one man that has become a permanent feature in the politics of the country, beginning from first republic when he was appointed a minister at his youthful age. “Through sheer oratory, the name Maitama Sule had become synonymous with wit and wisdom. He never minced words when speaking against ills in society and how to curb them. “He would remain an inspiration to both present and forthcoming generations on the lessons of tolerance, unity, and peaceful coexistence. He left at a time his wise counsel is in dire need to navigate our way out of current challenges confronting the country. I pray the Almighty Allah to grant his soul aljannah firdaus and his family the fortitude to bear the loss,” he said.