By Promise Adiele PRESENTLY, a myriad of challenges confront Nigeria although we have defied bigger odds to remain a united entity since the inauguration of the Lugardian political architecture in 1914. Since that epoch making amalgam, we have witnessed events which shook the foundations of this great country to the extent of collapse. However, we have managed to stay together but with a greater percentage of the people wallowing in agonizing shapes and sizes which bears testimony to a consistent burglary of the exchequer. As Nigerians grapple with many challenges, there are those who have demonstrated love for this country and its continued existence. There are also those who daily manifest neurotic tendencies by attempting to tear the fabric of the country to unrecognizable shreds; a coterie of ethnic bigots who relentlessly hallucinate over the possibilities of disintegration. To the latter category, we must show pity and love since it is obvious they are ideologically bereaved. Given that we are divided along the lines of ethnicity and political affiliations, to air one’s views on power protocols in a plurimental country like Nigeria is a dicey endeavour. This is because one stands the risk of provoking ethnic hysteria capable of further provoking political unease. But the job must be done. Not long ago, after the general elections of April 2015, Nigerians congratulated one another on the successful transition of power from the lethargic residual to the dynamic emergent. Then we rejoiced and welcomed the new government praying to God never to be unfortunate again to have a group of men weighed down by socio-economic psychosis preside over our collective fortunes in the manner the outgoing mammoths had done. Under their watch, it was a clarion call to take even what you did not need as long as it was removed from the Nigerian purse. With an economy in comatose, assaulted by those who were committed to annihilate the Nigerian patrimony, overseen by the celebrated economic witchdoctor, Ngozi Okonjo Iweala, there was little hope for the citizens. The lunacy of terrorism advanced to a murderous level as the Boko Haram conundrum subsisted in implacable fury. Given the above scenario, it was inevitable that the PDP was completely trounced in the election that followed. It couldn’t be more Delphic. Then, enter Muhammadu Buhari. Muhammadu Buhari is a good man. His integrity quotient stands him above anyone who has served Nigeria in the capacity of Commander-in-Chief. He can rightly be described as an exception among the underachieving paterfamilias who presided over the affairs of this country since independence. Buhari’s repudiation of hedonism and apparent aversion for extravagance endeared him to many Nigerians clamoring for change from the gluttonous consciousness that characterized public office. As a public officer, he distinguished himself in his various duty posts except for the scandal that trailed his name while servicing as chairman of PTF under the dark years of Sanni Abacha’s misrule. T hen it was reported that N25 billion grew wings and flew out of the PTF coffers reminiscent of folkloric magic and wonder.  Till this day, that colossal amount of money, like a recalcitrant nomadic dog has not returned. After contesting elections on three different occasions, he finally emerged victorious in 2015 as the flag bearer of APC defeating the ineffable Goodluck Jonathan. It is important to state clearly that what brought APC to power was not a complete acceptance of its manifesto by the people of Nigeria but a rejection of the PDP, a party enmeshed in seismic pathologies. On assumption of office Buhari inherited a country deeply steeped in the cesspool of countervailing, mutually cancelling power centres which continually incubated an economy of disaffection. Thinking about the last dispensation headed by the Otuoke maladroit ex-president, one struggles to shake free from a feeling of nausea induced by the knowledge that Nigeria was destined to be led to Golgotha for a climactic crucifixion. Indeed Buhari had a handful at the inception of his administration. Although some people accuse him of economic illiteracy, Nigerians have faith in him; at least he will not steal, pilfer or loot. In two years of his administration, the Daura progeny has given Nigeria a new identity at the international stage amid western adulation. Again, he has succeeded in crushing to an extent the destructive activities of the terrorist group, Boko Haram. In fact, a good percentage of the kidnapped Chibok girls had been rescued in the same manner that monumental heists had been exposed and stolen funds recovered. Although his administration has plunged Nigeria into a vicious recession, his apologists have explained it away on the difficulties inherent in cleaning the Augean stables. On and on, Buhari marched with Nigerians ably assisted by the cerebral Yemi Osinbajo, a professor of Law. Suddenly Buhari took ill. His presence at the seat of power has become irregular as he straddles between Abuja and alien fields of healing. Worrisome is the fact that Nigerians are in limbo regarding the health conditions of the man they elected to superintend their affairs for at least four years. In the absence of the Commander-In-Chief, Nigeria’s power organogram has become a structure of political foolery, waywardness and wanton infamy. His absence has created a hiatus in Nigeria’s leadership apparatus leaving the vice president with minimal executive powers. Buhari is ill no doubt. To be ill is not a criminal offence and it does not diminish ones potential for greatness. It is clear that our elected, self- disciplined and prudent leader is ill but Nigeria must move forward. No individual is greater than this country and no individual is indispensible. The world can do without the best man says an old adage. Buhari should as a matter of urgency tender his resignation letter and handover full executive powers to the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. If this does not happen, the ship of state will capsize or fall into the hands of scheming opportunists who are desperate to acquire power at all cost. Buhari’s continued clinging to power in absentia has the possibility to plunge Nigeria into a bottomless purgatory were enemy nationals, with documented history of political subterfuge will bludgeon the rest of us to eternal damnation. His absence makes it difficult for the presidency to take a stand on the growing voice of restructuring and also provide an answer to ethnic delinquents clamoring for secession. He has achieved what no other person has done in the history of Nigeria, defeating an incumbent from the platform of another party. He has fulfilled his age-long ambition of serving Nigeria as an elected president. He should be a fulfilled man. The time is now for him to resign and bequeath power to his vice so that the Nigeria ship of state will continue to sail. In this way, he will be celebrated as the greatest Nigerian ever lived. Adiele writes from Department of English University of Lagos Mail Box