From: David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi The traditional ruler of Igbo-Ukwu Kingdom in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State, His Royal Highness Igwe Barr Martin Ezeh, has warned the Igbo in the North not to take anything for granted concerning the October 1 deadline of the quit notice given to them by some youths there. Igwe Ezeh said in not minding that the Arewa youths were said to have rescinded their quit notice, the Igbo in the North should be security-conscious. He called for a dialogue between Northern elders and the Ohaneze Ndigbo to avert the possibility of the two regions having a clash of any kind. The Igwe noted that the youths from both sides who, ‘beating war drums’ never witnessed the 30-month Nigeria-Biafra civil war to be able to assess the evil consequences of war. The traditional ruler explained that anybody who experienced the Nigeria-Biafra civil war would never like to witness situation again even in a dream. “I do not advise the Igbo in the North to return home.  But because of the Arewa youths’ persistence that our people should go, the Igbo should rather be cautious of their environments so that they would not be taken unawares. Leaders of both sides should reach an understanding. As a traditional ruler, I must preach love and I cannot preach violence. If by the crossfire of hate speeches, the country is plunged into another senseless war the youths would be held responsible,” he said. The monarch also said that the National Assembly should reconsider its position in the issue of power devolution. The Igwe noted that there was need to give adequate attention to popular opinion in the lawmaking business. He is of the opinion that if restructuring is what the people need, why not give it to them. “The authorities responsible for the restructuring of this country should expedite action so as to douse the tension already created by people agitating for self determination. To keep on delaying this restructuring or waving it away is not the best option for this country. It is rather dangerous and that poses a threat to the peace and stability of this country,” he warned. 