…Frowns at using Ojukwu’s name for campaign From: David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Governorship aspirant of the Mega Progressive People’s Party (MPPP) in Anambra State, His Majesty, Chuma Angus Ojukwu declared, at the weekend, that he has strong ambition to be the next Governor of Anambra State after the November 18 gubernatorial election. In his interaction with journalists, in Awka-Etiti, the aspirant said he had not come out for the election to be settled by anybody or waste his resources, adding that he was fully prepared to win the contest and become the next governor of the state. He maintained that his electoral fight with the sitting Governor Obiano would be a replay of the challenge between David and Goliath in the Bible. The MPPP aspirant, who would likely be a consensus candidate for the party as no other aspirant has indicated interest to contest the primaries with him, according to him, said he had all it takes to be the Governor of Anambra State and that he would not be scared by the state resources which the Governor might use to fight the election. “The size of the governor’s wallet, as somebody has said, cannot determine his electoral success this time around. I’m coming with divine mandate,” Ojukwu submitted. He said he concurred with the claims of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) that the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) would cease to exist after the November 18 election. He also warned the APGA to desist forthwith from using late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu’s name for campaign and political propaganda, citing the erection of bill boards at strategic positions all over the State with late Ojukwu’s picture and the inscription Nkea Bu Nke Anyi (this is our own party). “They should allow Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu’s soul to rest in peace and stop disturbing him in the spirit world,” he warned. As for what his administration would do in Anambra State, if he took over from Obiano, he explained that he had a ten-point agenda to execute. He named some of them to be free education at all levels, to attract railway line for Anambra people, steady electricity supply, adequate medical services, boosting the security, among others. He said all these would be handled simultaneously. He assured that his government would be pro-Biafra, saying, “with my position as the Executive Governor of Anambra State, it is either Nigeria is restructured or we the Biafrans will be forced to restructure ourselves and change Anambra to Biafra State.”