From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Acting President, Yemi Osinbajo, left Abuja yesterday evening to attend a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in London, the United Kingdom. Osinbajo’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, tweeted the acting president’s  departure to London, on his Twitter handle @akandeoj at 7:34pm. “AgP Osinbajo meeting with President Buhari in London, today, and returning to Abuja, immediately afterwards.” Osinbajo jetted out soon after presiding over the Quarterly Presidential Business Forum yesterday morning, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Akande had initially denied the trip when he realised State House Correspondents had got wind of the acting president’s trip. He gave the newsmen a decoy and informed them Osinbajo would only be traveling to Lagos after the event. Akande would eventually disclose the acting president’s actual destination in a tweet yesterday evening, although he declined to disclose details of the London meeting. Daily Sun, however, gathered that the acting president is expected to preside over today’s Federal Executive Council meeting. Buhari left the country on May 7, 2017, and has been away for more than 65 days, attending to his health in London. He similarly left for medicals on January 19, 2017. His wife, Aisha, had visited him on May 30 and returned a week later, on June 6, 2017. Mrs. Buhari, however, returned to London on Tuesday  July 3, after attending a meeting of the Organisation of African First Ladies against HIV/AIDS (OAFLA) in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. But, on Monday, July 10, on her Facebook page, the First lady  hinted that her husband is recovering and would possibly return home soon. In her Facebook post, which was in response to an earlier post by Senator Shehu Sani. The senator wrote: “Prayer for the absent Lion King has waned. Until he’s back, then they will fall over each other to be on the front row of the palace temple. “Now, the hyenas and the jackals are scheming and talking to each other in whispers; still doubting whether the Lion King will be back or not. “Now, the Lion King is asleep and no other dares to confirm if he will wake up or not. “It is the wish of the hyenas that the Lion King never wakes up or come back so they can be kings. “It is the prayers of the weaker animals that the Lion King comes back to save the kingdom from the hyenas, the wolves and other predators.” Aisha replied that “the hyenas” and “the jackals” will soon be ejected from the kingdom. “God has answered the prayers of the weaker animals. The hyenas and the jackals will soon be sent out of the kingdom. We strongly believe in the prayers and support of the weaker animals. Long live the weaker animals, long live Nigeria,” she said.