By  MARTINS ANUFORO The lottery sector has been through challenges implementing the automated regulation regime. The threats, clash of interests, sharp practices and  sabotage are enormous. But the decision of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) to be resolute emits a signal that it is determined. Indeed, it has appraised the drains of hefty proceeds through various leakages. No thanks to the analogue system of regulation which takes the chunk of the blames. Nigeria has been left behind in this ancient mode of moderation. Any discerning stakeholder in the industry would have noticed that there is nothing to cheer in physical regulation of lottery. Most of the transactions are done on short message services (sms). Therefore, physical assessment of operations here is similar to going to fight a gun battle with a knife. Ironically, this physical regulation is now the beautiful bride of the industry. Apparently, businessmen have found solace raping the industry to devastation. The watch-dog has been battered on many fronts. NLRC has been steeped in intrigues, rancour, legal smokescreens, tussles on jurisdiction etc. The fancy by numerous investors to square up to physical monitoring and enforcement is not farfetched. In the orthodox regulation, operators enjoy unreported revenue from businesses, non-remittance of appropriate statutory obligation, underpayment of prizes, short-changing of players. In fact, tycoons present to the umpire what they choose to give out: reminiscent to ‘dash’ in street parlance. To actualise the automation is the introduction of STRAMAP. This device is a computer driven concept of various control systems for operating equipment and other applications with minimal or reduced human intervention. STRAMAP is an acronym for SMS Transaction Monitoring and Archival Platform. The tenet is designed to capture every transaction and afterward provide data on every lottery operation done through SMS or USSD. On the dashboard, data released on application of the button will avail the Commission an analysis of level of winnings from every part of Nigeria. The confidence in the innovation is that compliance and enforcement will be at the beck and call of the referee. All the participants are given a level playing ground. Certainly with this, the players, operators and government get what is due to them. With this development a simple gadget like the telephone can be used to block the access code of any operator involved in an infringement. This stand accommodates the much touted transparency, accountability and integrity: watch-words that drive lottery around the globe. Automation is a tested and trusted construct. It is believed that its intimidating testimony justifies every aforementioned claim. Upon its pilot test, the idea recorded a mouth-watering 70% well above the proceeds hitherto made. Despite the lofty qualities of automation in the regulation of this venture, many still pray it is not left in the arm-chair of theorists. STRAMAP is meant to cleanse the system and this cannot happen without resistance from these entrepreneurs who are already neck deep in white-collar crimes. Therefore, the pseudo media appearance of lottery matters and arguments are all frolics from antagonists of this mode of regulation. These elements are yet unrepentant. Many businessmen will stop at nothing to thwart this onerous development. Why would Nigeria sprint from pillar to post for economic diversification when the answer is in lottery? It is an open-and-shut case. This policy direction has been applauded. Yet the delay in its implementation projects it as a utopian fantasy. However, Nigeria should be encouraged by results from other countries. Examples of countries that have adopted this method are unending. Moroco lottery transformed from 1991 when lottomatica S.C.P.A was charged to manage and organise her lottery automation. Similar feat was replicated in South Africa following the Electronic Communication and Transaction Act 2002 for the provision of gaming and lottery services, or searches related to year of lottery automation operated by Ithuba. Howbeit, Congo Brazaville did not have such impetus until external motivation came her way. In 2004, the African Association of State lotteries had advised Congo to opt for automation so as to meet profit margins. In 2005 after adopting this framework, Congo lottery realised over 14 million Euros. Ghana in 2009 through her National Lottery Authority (NLA) employed the PADPM (Portable Automatic Data Processing Machine) with central computer. The computer takes precedence over information recorded on the ticket or selection slip. The ticket with valid signature and identification must be presented in order to claim prizes. PADPM modules of application include terminal building, credit management, draw process and lotto marketing companies register. Ghana funded the project from SG-SSB Bank. A total of 5,485,856 Euro was used to procure PADPMS, lottery software solutions, VSAT, Satelite communication system and the loan repaid 36months latter. The monthly instalment payment plan amounted to GHC 650,000 (as payment plus interest) While dialectics take pre-eminence in Nigeria’s lottery, Ghana has continued to harvest whopping sums from PADM. Today, Ghana’s “good causes” in education, water and sanitation are cited closely with lottery landmarks like Great Walls of China and Ivy League institutions. Between January 1st and July 23rd, 2011 a total of Ghc 5,681,28g was recorded as sales. With one-third of the equipment in only six months, they realised sales of 2m Ghana Cedi per month. If Gold Coast (Ghana) could unearth gold in lottery, then Nigeria can. We should not wait until “economic diversification” switches-on to a mantra. The synergy of the commission with relevant agencies is great. Nevertheless, enormous political will is required to drive the amendment of the Lottery Act. At least, this will quell the daggers-drawn between the state lottery and NLRC. It is petty admitting speculation that the new regime will fly like a bat in the twilight. Any success is dependent on two conditions: that the incoming Director General, Lanre Gbajabiamila, neither tumbles on the stumbling blocks of the operators nor slips from the banana peels of their cronies. If he trudges against these landmines, the sky will be his bounds. Certainly, if this happens, our over-burdened petro-economy will heave a deep sigh of relief. It also underscores why the federal government should buoy up the project. Because the larger her purse, the greater the good causes to share. Anuforo writes from Abakaliki via chukwemeka@gmail.com