TWO  persons were yesterday confirmed dead in a four-storey building that collapsed on Massey Street in Central Lagos, injuring several persons, with many residents trapped under the rubble. The building, situated on No 3, Massey Street, reportedly collapsed at 2.43 pm, according to Lagos emergency officials. It was believed that the building was a three-storey house until recently when a fourth level was added. At the time of going to press, 14 persons had been rescued, according to the General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Service Agency (LASEMA), Mr. Adesina Tiamiyu. He said efforts were still ongoing to rescue many other persons trapped under the rubble. Police operatives, LASEMA officials and fire service men were all at the scene. “Heavy duty equipment is presently searching through the rubble,” Adesina added. Meanwhile, Lagos State Government yesterday served a 48-hour ‘abatement notice’ from July 25 to July 27 to illegal structures and shanties’ owners, including containerised shops in Obalende axis. Head, Public Affairs Unit, Lagos State Task Force, Mr. Adebayo Taofiq, in a statement, said the illegal structures blocking the drainage were partly responsible for the flooding in Lagos. Chairman, Lagos State Task Force, SP Olayinka Egbeyemi, said the illegal structures and shanties, including containerised shops were blocking free flow of drainages. “They are also blocking the canals around Obalende thereby causing floods whenever it rains. “The initial six-month notice from the government expired recently but the law permitted this new 48 hours abatement notice to be served before any demolition,’’ Egbeyemi said in the statement. The chairman said the perennial flooding experienced in some parts of the state were not natural but a ‘man-made disaster’. “There is the need for attitudinal change from  the public to support the government in securing the environment. “I implore owners of such illegal structures, shanties and containerised shops around Obalende, including ‘under bridges’ to remove them within 48 hours of this notice or have them demolished by the government,’’ he said. According to Egbeyemi, motor mechanics and other  unauthorised commercial activities within Obalende and its environs were also affected by the notice. “We seek for a total compliance and maximum cooperation from the people around Obalende. “We also advise miscreants and hoodlums around the area to relocate outside the state as anyone arrested would be charged to court,’’ the statement said.