Some residents  of the Iba Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State have appealed to  LCDA and the state government to provide proper drainage to halt  flooding in the area.
They made the appeal in separate interviews, on Thursday, in Lagos.
Mr Morufu Akano, a resident of Isashi, community decried the absence of drainage system in the area.
“Anytime it rains here, the whole place becomes inhabitable; some houses are submerged while the inner roads become impassable due to erosion.
“The only requirement here is a drainage system that can absorb and control the water,we are calling on the LCDA to do this as a matter of urgency before the problem degenerates to serious flooding,” he said.
Another resident, Mr Michael Ola, said, “The recent flooding on the island is an indication of what could likely happen here if urgent steps are not taken to control the situation.
“Communities like ours fall within the purview of the local government and we are calling on the LCDA here to take urgent steps.
“Already, the erosion caused by perennial rains is worsening the living condition of the people, and if it degenerates to serious flooding it will be difficult for us to cope,” he said.
Contributing, Mrs Bola Alaka stressed the need for the council to take proactive measures to control heavy rain water in the area. “If drainage system is not provided for the low income areas of the state, the flooding that will happen here will be far more devastating than what happened on the Island recently,” she warned.
NAN reports that communities in Iba LCDA lack drainage system and tarred roads, a development that always turn them to  slums, during rainy season.
Attempts to get reaction of the Sole Administrator of Iba LCDA were not successful as he was said to be out of the council when NAN visited on two occasions.
However, a staff of the council, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the council lacked adequate resources to execute the projects.
He advised residents to stop dumping of refuse indiscriminately so as not to block water channels.
“I do not think we have the financial capacity to execute some of these capital intensive projects.
“But while we await availability of funds to provide these necessary infrastructure, I will advise residents to stop indiscriminate dumping of refuse, as that also complicates the problem,” he said. (NAN)