From Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has disclosed how his prayers at his late grandfather’s grave led to his victory at the September 28, 2016 governorship election. He disclosed this during a thanksgiving service held at the New Covenant Gospel Church, Benin organised for his victory at the Supreme Court. The governor said: “When I decided to run for the office of the governor, I went to tell my uncle,  Justice Andrew Otutu Obaseki  (now late) and seek his blessings. “He sat me down and prayed for me. And after his prayers, he asked my uncle to take me to my grandfather’s grave to pray and ask for whatever I wanted. “I did exactly that.  And throughout, he was in prayers for me till the Monday, when I got my victory at the Supreme Court. “The Pentecostal movement started in this city. I have never known any other way,  the only thing that I know since I was burn is Christ. I don’t dream. When I sleep, I wake up the next day after six hours because I don’t carry any problem to bed.” He said it was the duty of the religious leaders to pray for the leadership of the state to succeed so that it would be a reference point to other states in the federation. “I want the church to continue to pray for us because God has made Edo State to show other states the way to govern,” he said. He said he would remain grateful to the immediate past governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole, who stood by him, noting that he was the unpopular candidate among those who had the intension to run as the governorship candidates of All Progressives Congress but God showed him favour. Governor Obaseki said he was brought into politics to correct what hitherto had gone wrong in the state and that he would accomplish all that God has called him to do, adding that when God gives responsibility, He also makes provision for its accomplishment. On his part, Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, Bishop Oyenude Kure, said the Christian body would rally support for Obaseki’s administration to ensure he succeeds on his mandate. The Christian leader said the victory of Obaseki at the Supreme Court was already ordained by God, adding that he should rule the state with the fear of God. “God has given you the mandate. God is with you in this journey. He is in your front so that your steps will not slide. “God is at your back so that enemies will not stab you behind. The little time we have watched you, we know you have the destiny of the state at heart,” he said.