Having established that the best medicine is in our foods I now wish to bring our attention to other substances, though not food, but quite edible, which also serve as medicine. The first substance that I’m considering have the following unique properties: When you place it in a smelly part of the body it stops the bad odour. When you take it orally, it stops  excessive gas build up in the bowels  It can be used as antidote for many poisons. Placing a few quantity of it on your leftover food  keeps it fresh for longer period. The substance I’m talking about is Activated Charcoal! This is not the same as the normal charcoal we use in barbeque. It is a charcoal that has been subjected to specific heat in a furnace. It is true that ordinary charcoal also has some of the properties, but, one will need quite a lot of charcoal to have the same effect that activated charcoal will give. One unique property of Activated Charcoal is its ability to *adsorb*, not just absorb, that is, it can draw out  particles from gases, liquids, and solids. It is not for nothing that our forefathers used to have a particular local remedy known as APORO or EEPA IJEBU at home. They believed that it cures all sorts of abdominal problems. The fact remains that this remedy contains about 70 to 80 per cent processed charcoal . It must be emphasized that ordinary charcoal cannot be as effective as *activated charcoal*. Using Activated Charcoal comes with some side effects which may include the following: It can cause constipation if enough fluid isn’t taken with it.  It can reduce the absorption of vitamins from the guts into the blood, especially when taken at the same time with supplements. It can also turn the colour of faeces black.  All these are some of the expected side effects. And this is why it should not be taken on a regular basis. Twice in a year is recommended for general detox. Obviously, it cannot be often that someone ingests poison accidentally, warranting the use of Activated Charcoal! Some of the benefits of Activated Charcoal and Its Uses: •For removing poisoning by various chemical substances, drugs, toxic heavy metals from the body. •For general body detoxification. •For treating food poisoning. •For treating stomach pain caused by excess gas, diarrhea, or indigestion. •For reversing body odor and bad breath. •As an adjunct in curing p Hepatitis. •For treating hangovers. •For clearing effects of  chemotherapy or radiotherapy •For curing various skin ailments. To get Pharmaceutical grade Activated Charcoal, visit any standard Pharmacy or Health Store close to you.  It comes in two forms : tablets and capsules. Consult your physician or certified alternative health provider close to you for more details. Kayode Oseni osenialayo@gmail.com