… Mourn former First Republic minister From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja House of Representatives yesterday resolved to summon the Minister of Power,  Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, to appear before its Ad-hoc committee led by  Aliyu Madaki, over his recent comments on the provisions for his ministry in the 2017 budget. Fashola had accused the federal legislature of inserting  projects outside the purview of his ministry in the budget of the ministry in the 2017 Appropriation Act. The House decision followed a motion by  Sadiq Ibrahim under matters of privilege at yesterday’s plenary. Moving the motion, Ibrahim, while brandishing a newspaper, said the Power, Works and Housing Minister in recent media reports made comments that amounts to infringement on the privilege of federal lawmakers. He said in as much as freedom of speech is guaranteed in the constitution, the utterance of the minister on the 2017 budget of his ministry was tantamount to inciting Nigerians against the parliament. Ibrahim said prior to the passage of the 2017 Appropriation Act, the executive and legislature had met to iron grey areas about the distribution of projects in the budget and noted that Fashola was even present in that meeting. He said it was unfortunate that the minister would turn round to make disparaging comments about the National Assembly members on an issue that was addressed by both the legislature and the executive. Ibrahim said in established democracies like US and Canada, the legislature plays a critical role in budgetary process. He stated that if nothing is done about Fashola utterances, it could jeopardise the implementation of the 2017 budget. The lawmaker also argued that the utterance of the minister is capable of affecting the cordial relationship presently existing between the legislature and the executive. He said Fashola abandoned the official channel of communication between the two arms of government. “It is an attack on all of us and capable of causing friction between the executive and the legislature. There is need for Fashola to appear before an ad-hoc committee of this House to give answers to his comments which were capable of inciting Nigerians against their representatives,” he stated. In his contribution, the Chief Whip, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, said one of the problems confronting the country is that some individuals carry on as if they are above the law. “He is undermining the budget. The action of the minister is capable of truncating the relationship between the executive and legislature,” Dogowa said. However, Kingsley Chinda said since the motion is investigative, “I will appeal that we hold our gun powder. “ Meanwhile, the House yesterday observed a minute silence in honour of late Alhaji Maitaima Sule, who passed on Monday. At the commencement of plenary yesterday, Hon. Dambram Nuhu, on the invitation of Speaker Yakubu Dogara, formally informed  the House about the demise of Sule. Nuhu said with the death of the elder statesman, his constituency and the entire country has lost a father.