From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka The chances of the Senator representing Anambra South Senatorial District, Dr. Andy Uba winning the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket for the November18 governorship election brighten yesterday when another aspirant, Hon. Charles Odedo withdrew from the race and collapsed his structure for that of Uba. This brings to two the number of APC aspirants that have withdrawn for Uba in the race. The first being former House of Representatives member, Hon. Ralph Okeke. Odedo who addressed his supporters in his Nnobi country home said though he was optimistic when he declared for the race, he had seen that Senator Uba was a better candidate for the party to go to the battle with. The former lawmaker, who declared his governorship ambition in Anambra state on July 10, disclosed that he had weighed all the options available and found out that Uba was better than all of them. “When I declared to run for governor, I was number 14 and I was optimistic because I felt I had a lot of goodwill because I performed very well when I was at the House of Representatives. But somehow that message that is so popular in Idemili has not managed to go out and again the primary election is about 17 days from now. “My advice to my colleague aspirants is that if it is possible everybody should step down, let us have a consensus candidate, and unite under SenatorUba, and take over the state, so that we can improve on the performance of Willie Obiano. “I am stopping down my governorship campaigns today in Anambra State to support Senator Andy Uba with all my supporters. Idemili North and South boast of the highest number of voters in 21 local government areas in the state and if we give our votes to Uba, (APC) then he would have won the election. “We know also that we are going to contest against an incumbent governor in this state, and with Uba against whoever, victory is assured for (APC), but whether Odedo becomes governor or not, empowerment must continue.” Earlier, Odedo had carried out an empowerment programme for his supporters by giving out two buses, one Camry car and five Sienna cars.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 