•Unveils candidates From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Following the publication of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) timetable for the November 18, 2017 Anambra governorship election, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has set the cost of securing its expression of interest form at N500,000 while the nomination form is N5 million. Taking a cue from INEC’s schedule which indicates that primaries could commence from August 5, 2017, APC is now set to release its internal timetable including announcement for the sale and purchase of the forms. This development was confirmed by Chief George Moghalu, who disclosed his readiness to pick his forms within the week. There are indications that the APC will hold its primary to select who among the party’s 14 aspirants picks the ticket on  August 12. This indication was earlier given by the chairman of the party’s South East committee on the Anambra governorship election, Senator Jim Nwobodo, who disclosed that the APC had written to INEC seeking to be allowed to hold its primary ahead of other political parties in the state. Moghalu said the purchase, completion and return of the expression of interest and nomination forms within the stipulated timeframe by each aspirant, appears to be one of the most important aspects of the gubernatorial process.  Of the party’s 14 aspirants, Moghalu remains ahead of others, according to wide opinion poll conducted in the state. Moghalu was picked of all aspirants across party lines in terms of merit, integrity, administrative savvy, personal or official discipline, consistency, loyalty and reliability. Records show that some of those currently running round the state as aspirants would fizzle out during the purchase of forms or at the stage of return of the forms. Again, some may purchase, complete and return the forms within the stipulated time, but may not turn up for other processes like screening and the actual primary election. Meanwhile,  sources hinted that APC National Working Committee (NWC) has narrowed its preferred candidates for its primary election to include Senator Andy Uba, Chief George Muoghalu and Tony Nwoye. The three, as it was gathered, were settled for, based on their integrity, influence and antecedents. However, feelers across the state and beyond have hinted that Uba, most likely, would emerge top in the party primaries as his popularity and experience in politics and business circle place him far ahead of other aspirants. They expressed the confidence that the versatile politician would surpass the achievements of past administration. An Awka-based public affairs expert, Obinna Emmanuel, said it is only the senator who could give Governor Willie Obiano a good fight in the  election, adding that the senator’s supporters spread across the three senatorial districts. Uba, who represents Anambra South senatorial district at the Senate, has vowed to send the incumbent governor packing. He described himself as the most qualified APC aspirant jostling for the ticket. “Anambra needs someone like me, who has the knowledge and understanding to turn things around and bring federal presence to the state. I will use my influence to make life better for every Anambra person if given the chance to govern the state,” he said. The senator pledged that his administration, if given the chance, would be all-inclusive, devoid of discrimination and marginalisation. A member of All Progressives Congress (APC) and indigene of the state, Chief Osita Okechukwu described Uba as purposeful and investment-oriented. He said the aspirant had done a lot for the people within and outside his constituency to convince APC delegates that he is the right choice. “I will advise other people to step down because Uba’s victory is sure. He is the only one that can lead Anambra to the Promised Land.” Because the issue of zoning was never formal in the state, but was described as a gimmick by the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) then under, Mr Peter Obi to enable him foist his friend and business associate on the state to help cover his tracks. That is why the APC as well as even the APGA and all other political parties in the state have aspirants from all the senatorial zones of the state. Apart from Mr Paul Chukwuma, Ralph Okeke, Chike Obidigbo and Tony Nwoye who come from the North zone, Moghalu, Bart Nwibe, Johnbosco Onunkwo, Andy Uba, amongst others come from the South zone. From Central zone were Donatus Okonkwo, and Charles Odedo, while unconfirmed muffled report within and outside the party has been agog with an impending declaration of interest by the old warhorse and the incumbent Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige. However, the Minister has not made any categorical statement on the matter, even as the date of primary fast draws near. APC sets/sd Anambra guber: APC sells forms N5.5m •May pick candidate on August 12 From David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Following the publication of timetable for the November 18, 2017 Anambra governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) has set the cost of securing its Expression of Interest form at N500,000 while the Nomination form is N5 million. Taking a cue from INEC’s schedule which indicates that primaries could commence from August 5, 2017, APC is now set to release its internal timetable including announcement for the sale and purchase of the forms. This development was confirmed by Chief George Moghalu, who disclosed his readiness to pick his forms within the week. There are indications that the APC will hold its primary to select who among the party’s 14 aspirants picks the ticket on  August 12. This indication was earlier given by the chairman of the party’s South East Committee on the Anambra governorship election, Senator Jim Nwobodo, who disclosed that the APC had written to the INEC seeking to be allowed to hold her primary ahead of other political parties in the state. Besides touring the 326 electoral wards and the 21 council meeting with the respective executives who are the statutory delegates to the primary, Moghalu said the purchase, completion and return of the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms within the stipulated timeframe by each aspirant, appears to be one of the most important aspects of the gubernatorial process. Of the party’s 14 aspirants, Moghalu remains ahead of others, according to wide opinion poll conducted in the state. Moghalu was picked of all aspirants across party lines in terms of merit, integrity, administrative savvy, personal or official discipline, consistency, loyalty and reliability. ..Records show that some of those currently running round the state as aspirants would fizzle out during the purchase of forms and or at the stage of return of the forms. Again, some may purchase, complete and return the forms within the stipulated time, but may not turn up for other processes like screening and the actual primary election. This was just as sources hinted that APC National Working Committee (NWC) has narrowed its preferred candidates for its primary election to include Senator Andy Uba, Chief George Muoghalu and Tony Nwoye. The three, as it was gathered, were settled for, based on their integrity, influence and antecedents. However, feelers across the state and beyond have hinted that Uba, most likely, would emerge top in the party primaries as his popularity and experience in politics and business circle place him far ahead other aspirants. They expressed the confidence that the versatile politician would surpass the achievements of past administration. An Awka-based public affairs expert, Obinna Emmanuel, stated that it is only the senator who could give Governor Willie Obiano a good fight in the  election, adding that the senator’s supporters spread across the three senatorial districts. Uba, who represents Anambra South at the Senate, has vowed to send the incumbent governor packing. He described himself as the most qualified APC aspirant jostling for the ticket. “Anambra needs someone like me, who has the knowledge and understanding to turn things around and bring federal presence to the state. I will use my influence to make life better for every Anambra person if given the chance to govern the state,” he said. The senator pledged that his administration, if given the chance, would be all-inclusive, devoid of discrimination and marginalisation. A member of All Progressives Congress (APC) and indigene of the state, Chief Osita Okechukwu described Uba as purposeful and investment-oriented. He said the aspirant had done a lot for the people within and outside his constituency to convince APC delegates that he is the right choice. “I will advise other people to step down because Uba’s victory is sure. He is the only one that can lead Anambra to the Promised Land.” Because the issue of zoning was never formal in the state, but was described as a gimmick by the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) then under, Mr Peter Obi to enable him foist his friend and business associate on the state to help cover his tracks. That is why the APC as well as even the APGA and all other political parties in the state have aspirants from all the senatorial zones of the state. Apart from Mr Paul Chukwuma, Ralph Okeke, Chike Obidigbo and Tony Nwoye who come from the North zone, Moghalu, Bart Nwibe, Johnbosco Onunkwo, Andy Uba, amongst others come from the South zone. From Central zone were Donatus Okonkwo, and Charles Odedo, while unconfirmed muffled report within and outside the party has been agog with an impending declaration of interest by the old warhorse and the incumbent Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige. However, the Minister has not made any categorical statement on the matter, even as the date of primary fast draws near.