From John Adams, Minna Acting President, Yemi Osibanjo, has given the contractor handling construction of a temporary bridge at Tatabu village, in Mokwa Local Government Area of Niger State, two weeks to finish the work, and ease commuters’ hardship. The Tatabu bridge, which was washed away two months ago, by downpour, is one the bridges which links the North with the South West, along the ever-busy Mokwa-Jebba-Ilorin Highway. Over 2,000 trailers, tankers and other smaller trucks are currently stranded there, with perishable goods worth hundreds of thousand of naira. Osibanjo, accompanied by Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, yesterday, visited the site of the collapsed bridge for on-the-spot-assessment where he directed the contractor to ensure completion of the temporary bridge within two weeks. The acting president, who was shocked at the extent of damage to both the bridge and the rail line, pointed out that the Federal Government will ensure that a permanent solution is found to frequent collapse of bridges along  the highway which he described as a “very important route” to the country. “This is an important route and we can assure you all that the temporary road would be done as fast as possible. We have gotten assurances from the contractor handling the road. The road will be made passable in a fortnight. By then, I believe that there will be better movement of goods and vehicles. “Government will surely find a permanent solution to the frequent collapse of bridges along this very important highway which links the north and south west of the country. Osibanjo disclosed that the contractor has been adequately mobilised, to ensure the speedy completion of the temporary bridge, and stressed that “although there are challenges in moving materials from Jebba to the site due to the long queue of trailers, I can assure you that everyone is committed to making sure that the road is made passable as quickly as possible.” He also said that the federal government is working towards reviving the rail transportation system, as an alternative to reducing pressure on the roads. “The roads are not strong enough to take 70 to 80 tonnes of loads; that is why we are working hard to make sure the rail network takes off as soon as possible.” He lamented that most of the roads across the country are taking more loads than they could carry which is causing the collapse of several roads and bridges across the country. “This is a huge nation with several road network and we have to understand that most of the roads are taking much heavy traffic and tonnage than they can take. This road for instance is suppose to take 35 tonnes but it is taking 70 tonnes vehicles.” Osinbajo appealed to motorists to exercise patience and cooperate with the contractors to ensure that the work goes smoothly and fast. Earlier, Director of Highway Designs and Bridges from the Federal Ministry of Works, Housing and Transportation in charge of the project, Mr. Sylvester Jijingi had assured the acting president that it will take 14 days to complete the temporary bridge. He, however, assured that the permanent bridge which would be a dual bridge will be completed by December this year. He said N2.5 billion has already been released for the completion of the entire project. He told the Acting President that the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), the Police and men from the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSDC) had been adequately mobilized to ensure free flow of traffics.