Sultry actress, Mercy Johnson-Okojie has cried out to Nigerians to beware of scammers using her name for fraudulent practices. The actress recently posted a payment slip on Instagram thereby alerting Nigerians that a project tagged: ‘Mercy Johnson Give Away’ did not emanate from her. She consequently advised her fans to disregard the project, as it was a scam. Writing on Instagram, Mercy Johnson said: “I have not asked anyone to answer any questions on my films. I have only 1 ipad to myself. I don’t intend to give it out and I am not sharing free ipads or phones. I have never and will never ask my fans to pay money for anything, so do not pay money into any account for delivery from Mercy Johnson, as it is a scam. This account is being investigated and I am certain the person will be arrested.”  Chukwumerije takes Made in Nigeria poetry to OAU As the train of his ‘Made in Nigeria Poetry’ performance berths at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife tomorrow, ace poet, Dike Chukwumerije has lent his voice to the calls for unity in Nigeria. Describing the calls for disintegration of Nigeria as unwarranted, Dike said the average Nigerian today is a product of shared experiences drawn from multiple sections of the country. He added that the uniqueness of the character of the Nigerian is a result of his interactions with other Nigerians over time. “Call me what you will but Nigeria is my mother. She is responsible for it all. If I amaze you with this ability to constantly pull light out of darkness, to combat recession with a heady mixture of ‘kokoma’ and gyration, to climb out of any pit you throw me into, and instantly become recognizable anywhere I go, it is also because I was shaped by her contradictions and forged in the fierce furnace of her womb, so that somewhere on my soul, burned into its very essence, is a stamp no adversity or hate-filled speech will ever erase and it simply reads, Made in Nigeria,” Dike said. However, the poet pointed out that these do not mean that there aren’t conflicts or mis-representations but that these should always be seen for what they are – the exceptions and not the norm. Made in Nigeria Poetry is a 120-minute long linked-series of poems telling of Nigeria’s history, conveyed through a mix of comedy, music, dance and drama. 