From: AIDOGHIE PAULINUS, Abuja Against media reports that the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, no longer has access to her husband, President Muhammadu Buhari, as a result of the perceived secrecy surrounding the President’s ill-health, the Daily Sun can authoritatively report that the First Lady is currently with the President in Abuja House, London. Recall that President Buhari left Nigeria for London on Sunday, May 7, 2017, to attend to health challenges, having earlier made a similar trip to London and upon arrival in Nigeria, stated that he was going to return to London at a later date. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, had before the President’s departure for London, in May, stated on his twitter handle that the President was going on a medical follow-up, saying that the length of the president’s stay away was to be determined by his London doctors. A very competent presidency source told Daily Sun that Aisha is currently with President Buhari in Abuja House, London. The source said Aisha “visited the President two weeks ago and is currently with the President.” The source also dismissed insinuations that the President is suffering from memory loss, saying the President is responding to treatment. While stating that no specific date has been slated for the President’s return, the source said the President’s return “would strictly be on the orders of his doctors.” The source added: “Keeping the arrival date of the President secret is because of noise and exposure.” Probed further about the veracity that the First Lady no longer has access to the President, the source said: “It is not possible for a wife not to see her husband. “The information is bandied around by people trying to tarnish the image of the First Lady.” While saying that the First Lady was sad to see people wishing her husband dead, the source however said the First Lady was living up to her challenges and doing her best. “Anybody can be sick. But it is very unfortunate to see people wishing your husband dead,” the source concluded. 