From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Acting President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday met with Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State and security chiefs over the reconstruction of Bama town in Borno State which was devastated by Boko Haram insurgency. The closed-door meeting, which started few minutes to 6pm at the Vice President’s conference room, lasted about an hour. Those in attendance  were Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Danbazzau, service chiefs and heads of para-military agencies. Speaking to State House correspondents at the end of the parley, Shettima, said the session was an exploratory meeting to enable the relevant stakeholders share ideas on the rebuilding of the North East. The governor said the Bama initiative was to restore the dignity of people in the area and rebuild the infrastructure to give them hope. “It was an exploratory meeting for us to cross pollinate ideas on the rebuilding of the North East. The Federal Government has magnanimously decided to support us in the Bama initiative, a very beautiful pilot scheme which we hope will be replicated in all parts of the devastated North East.” He noted that rebuilding infrastructure would be a game changer in the area, adding that the Federal Government was desirous of assisting in the process. On the incessant bombings still going on in the state, Shettima argued that it was nothing to worry about. “If you juxtapose the sorry state of affairs two years ago with the current state of affairs, there is cause for celebration to me personally.  Even these suicide bombings is a sign of weakness on the part of Boko Haram. Two years ago, they were holding unto 22 out of 27 local government areas. “They have been sufficiently decimated. I am not under rating their capacity in the state but these are lunatics who bask on the opportunity of publicity to kill and maim so that they can get greater regard in the global Jihadist community. “Definitely, we are also coming up with robust response towards addressing this issue of suicide bombing. We have challenges no doubt about it. I am not actually discounting that fact, but when you put it in proper contest, you will see that a lot has been done, “They have been sufficiently decimated so that they can no longer hold on to any territory in the Nigerian federation.” The Borno State government recently reneged on an earlier decision to relocate IDPs to Bama communities before May 29, 2017, on the basis of an ongoing ‘mop-up operations by military troops of Operation Lafiya Dole. In June, international organisations announced that biometric registration in Bama IDP camp has been concluded with 6,827 registered individuals which comprise 2,385 households. In May, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai,  ordered investigation into alleged misconduct by soldiers, in an Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Bama. Some of the women had accused some soldiers and members of the Civilian JTF of demanding sex in exchange for favours. They also claimed some of their husbands were being detained in military barracks and Maiduguri maximum prison “for offences they did not commit.”