The management of NIPCO has approved new appointments in the company, with the promotion of the former Managing Director, Mr. Venkataraman Venkatapathy, to the position of Group Managing Director (GMD). Mr. Sanjay Teotia is now the Managing Director of the company while the former Executive Director, Corporate Services, Alhaji Abdulkadir Aminu is now Group Executive Director, Corporate Services. The appointments followed NIPCO’s successful acquisition of ExxonMobil’s 60 per cent equity in Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc making it the majority shareholder of the company. Venkatapathy, who joined NIPCO in 2009 as head, LPG, was made managing director in January 2011 before the recent appointment. He would be overseeing the entire NIPCO group, consisting of NIPCO and   Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc. His experience in the hydrocarbon industry covered areas ranging from refinery operations, LPG operations and market development, strategic management and business development, among others. A shrewd personality with numerous awards for innovation in LPG operations and marketing, he is currently an ex-officio member of the council of the Nigerian Gas Association, a non-profit organisation promoting the progress of the gas industry. Sanjay, has over 28 years cognate experience in the oil and gas industry across Asia and Africa, with core competencies in project management, downstream/midstream/upstream operations and human resource management, among others. A graduate of Birla Institute of Technology, Bihar, India, where he obtained a Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical) with first class honours, Sanjay, prior to joining NIPCO, was the DGM Origination, Trading and Marketing H-Energy Mumbai, India, a world-class company in LNG and heavy crude business; head, downstream operations, Lake Oil Limited, Tanzania; and Vice President, Liquid Terminals, Adani Ports & Sez Limited. Aminu, a civil engineer of repute and former chief engineer of Adamawa State, had chaired the Adamawa State  Task Force on petroleum products distribution through which he ensured product availability and stoppage of sharp practices at filling stations across the state. He also served on the boards of several regulatory agencies in the petroleum sector, including the Petroleum Products Pricing & Regulatory Agency and Petroleum Equalisation Fund. Aminu, who is the chairman of A.A. Mbamba Ltd, a fuel marketing company with scores of service stations across the country, holds the chieftaincy title of Sarkin Hurmi Adamawa in the state’s emirate council. 