by Bimbola Oyesola Aligning with the thought of the Federal Government on backward integration, going into Chin-chin production is indeed a good venture. Chin-chin is one of the made-in-Nigeria snacks like plantain chips which has now assumed international standard. It is one snack that children and grown-ups alike appreciate. Parents package it for their kids to have at school in between meal breaks, and grown-ups have it with cool soda pops, squeeze or water both at home, workplace and at social functions. Most Nigerians don’t go  into chin-chin business alone; they frequently consolidate it with different snacks like buns, puff-puff, cake, egg move, pizza, meat pie, angle pie, and so forth. But due to its taste, it has more acceptability over others and it has turned out to be the most loved snack for many Nigerians both at home and in the diaspora. Also with many Nigerians abroad, it means the country can also earn foreign exchange from it, provided it is well packaged to meet international standard. Though there may be numerous people already in the venture, but one can create a niche through branding and packaging. However like other businesses there are certain requirements an entrepreneur may need to follow to succeed in the Chin-Chin business and these include: Capital This is the most essential aspect  to consider while planning to go into the business of chin-chin production  in Nigeria. Although it is not capital intensive and can actually be run from home. But despite the fact that it is not capital concentrated, you need an obviously characterised wellspring of capital. Hence you should as a matter of first importance consider how to source money to begin the business. Chin-chin business can either be extensive or little scale based on the amount you have to start the business. With about N50,000, you can begin your little scale chin-chin business, however for this small scale, you may not be using machines like cutter which is moderately costly. You can actually make 100 percent profit on your capital and this is why the investment is considered as highly lucrative. Location Location is very important as you harmonise your plan for take-off  in this  business.  You should locate your business near a market where you can without much of a stress source the materials for making your chin-chin like floor, vegetable oil, nutmeg, sugar, and so forth. You may choose whether to lease a shop or work from your home. You can actually begin little from your home and when the business grow,  you must have gotten the capacity to lease an office for your business. Customers There must be a sensible number of individuals living in the area you intend to have your business,  unless you want to transport to other areas, where the snacks will be distributed, but this would surely be an additional cost on your scarce revenue. Be that as it may, you must have anticipated how to cover both short and long expenditure. You must have business consultation with proprietors of stores, grocery stores, inns, schools, organisations, diners, booths, shops, and different entrepreneurs who may likely be great key customers and additionally advertisers of your product. In this way, your feasibility study ought to have the capacity to cover those key elements in addition to other things. Equipment Operating on a small scale, you may not require a machine to prepare your chin-chin, but when the request is much, it is important for you to get a cutter to cut them into your preferred choice  and batter roller for plying the blend before slashing them to sizes. Different instruments incorporate stove for warming the vegetable oil, and spoon for scooping hot chin-chin from hot oil into a plate. Chin-chin business doesn’t really require enormous machines. 5.Technique for preparing Chin-Chin ‎Chin-chin is one of the most straightforward snacks to make. The basic ingredients however include: A. Flour B. Margarine C. Salt D. Granulated sugar ‎E. Vegetable oil F. Eggs G. Powdered nutmeg Note that the quantity of ingredients depend on the amount to be made, crunching and nature of chin-chin. 6. Steps to prepare chin-chin: i. Pour the flour in a spotless bowl and sifted your flour appropriately ii. Add heating powder to the blend above iii. After that you include some salt, water and some powdered sugar to it to drench and make it taste great iv. Include nutmeg and margarine after the last stride v. Smoother them for a few minutes to take into consideration legitimate smothering leaving no bumps vi. Include the egg yolk, water and drain, at that point mix appropriately vii. Place this batter on a spotless and smooth surface and stretch out using a mixture roller. viii. At the point when the mixture turns out to be totally level, cut the batter into shapes (round, square, triangle, and so forth.) ix. Put some vegetable oil into a pot and warmth it until it is noticeably hot X. Delicately pour the mixture into the oil and stir it for a few minutes until its colour changes to golden brown. Xi. Scoop the chin-chin into a sieve and allow it to cool. 7. Packaging Chin-chin is packaged in clean polythene nylon, bottle, or plastic container depending on your preference and your customers. It is however essential to have a label, as this would make it look more attractive and acceptable. You can sell the one in the bottle between  N500 to N1000, while the ones bundled in polythene nylon can be sold from N50-N200. It essential  you store the chin-chin in a cool dry condition to hold its freshness. 8. Advertising Perfectly bundled chin-chin is circulated in wicker bin and containers, and transported by vehicles to grocery stores, lodgings, schools, organizations, diners, stands, shops, and occasions that may require exceptional supply like birthday celebrations. You may choose to lease a shop and put chin-chin along with other snacks to enhance your business. Guarantee you have the contact of your clients to supply from time to time and often visit the stores and other outlets you supply to know when you need to restock as well as ensure that they never run out of stock. Remember there are other individuals in the business so there is need to satisfy your clients and ensure that they can rely on you. You may also need to provide incentives to your customers to boost your sales. 