From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Presidency yesterday denied the release of the three-man committee set up to probe the alleged infractions against the suspended Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal and the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ayo Oke.
There were insinuations earlier in the day that Lawal and Oke might have been recommended for sack.
The duo were suspended on April 19, 2017, and the committee headed by Acting President, Yemi Osinbajo, with the National Security Adviser (NSA), General Babagana Monguno (rtd) and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr Abubakar Malami as members, constituted by President Muhammadu Buhari.
Contacted to confirm that the panel allegedly recommended Lawal and Oke for sack, Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande said: “Has the report been released? You want me to react to speculation?”
Babachir was investigated for allegedly awarding N200million grass-cutting contract to clear “invasive plant species” in Yobe State, to Global Vision Limited, under the Presidential Initiative on the North East (PINE), a company in which he had interest.
The Senate Committee on Humanitarian Crisis in the North East had indicted Babachir and demanded his resignation and prosecution.
Oke was investigated for the alleged $43.4million operations cash found by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), at Apartment 7B, Osborne Towers, Ikoyi, Lagos.
He had claimed that the money belonged to the NIA and was approved by former President Goodluck Jonathan for some covert operations.
The presidential panel was mandated to uncover the circumstances in which the NIA came into possession of the funds and find out how and by whose or which authority the funds were made available to the NIA as well as establish whether or not there was a breach of the law or security procedure in obtaining custody and use of the funds.
Akande had said on May 3, 2017, in a statement that the panel was scheduled to submit its report to President Buhari on Monday, May 8. 