Traders in Masaka Market in Karu local government area of Nasarawa State, on Tuesday, urged the Nasarawa State Government to establish a fire service station in the market. The traders spoke  in Masaka on Sunday’s fire disaster in the market. They said that such a measure had become necessary to avert future occurrence. NAN reports that the traders have been counting  their losses following the early morning inferno that destroyed over 2,000 shops. They also appealed to the state government and wealthy individuals to come to their aid as they have virtually lost their sources of livelihood. They describe the losses they suffered as monumental and a huge setback not only to them but also to the state  and the country at large in view of the current economic recession. Mr Sunday Bala, the Chairman of the Traders’ Association, said that though the cause of the fire could not be immediately ascertained, the ongoing investigation would unravel the source. He said the need to avert future occurrence could not be overemphasised. Mr Ebere Chukwu, whose shop was gutted, said that life would be difficult for him and his family members. “I don’t even know how to start;  as you can see the fire has destroyed our shop and we don’t even know the cause of the fire but I see it as an act of God. “It is painful and unfortunate that the fire that engulfed Masaka market destroyed over 2,000 shops, with our goods and other valuables worth millions of naira. “The fire destroyed many shops like this because there is no fire service station in this market to quench the inferno. “If there had been a fire service station in the market, it would have helped in quenching the fire and the scope of the destruction would have been less.” Another trader, Habiba Audu, dealer in fabrics, said: “It is painful that I have lost everything in my shop to the fire incident but I see it as an act of God. “I want to appeal to the state government to provide a fire service station in this market.” Mr Augustine James, another trader, also expressed regret over the absence of a fire station in the market and urged the government to do something in that direction. (NAN)