Veteran Broadcast Journalist, Vinmartins Obiora Ilo, CEO, Signature Communications Limited and Executive Producer, O&M Show, is no doubt a man of no mean repute. The quintessential wordsmith who is an epitome of excellence in the art of the spoken word; became popular with   “News Hour” on Africa Independent Television (AIT). The broadcaster’s journey into journalism started as a Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSCE) holder. He is proudly undergoing PHD in Developmental Studies at University of Nigeria Nsukka. Ilo’s exploits within and outside the shores of Nigeria was a huge contribution to his success; spanning over 35 years in Journalism.  Speaking with Effects the Achi, Orji River, Enugu State-born media practitioner with niche for mentoring young people shares his success story, marriage, family and why young journalists must play their roles in giving dignity to the profession. How and when did you begin your  career? My career journey started in 1982 (35years ago) when I joined NTA, immediately after secondary education at St. Vincent, Agbogugu, where I was writing and participating in dramas with the likes of Kanayo O. Kanayo, Nkem Owoh among others. Thereafter, I worked with Radio Nigeria Enugu as an announcer. In 1996, I was employed as a broadcaster by Africa Independent Television. Were you passionate about Journalism as a child? I have always been passionate about the arts since my secondary school days. In fact, I was a DJ and MC in  school, aside stage acting and debating. After my secondary education; my parents got me a job as an auxiliary  teacher, but I rejected it for broadcasting. Few people are aware of your royalty background just because you carry yourself with  humility, can you  tell us about your family? Although, I didn’t grow up in a royal family, my father was the crown king of Adu Achi, Orji River, Enugu State for ten years. Until, he died last year, 19thMarch, 2016. My mother is Roseline Akunne Ilo and we are six children in the family, while I’m the first son. What were the lessons you learnt from your father? As a renowned teacher, my late father was my best critic, cheerleader and mentor. He taught me to do good silently, hardworking, kind and humble. His quote: “achieve what you can achieve today, not tomorrow, do the good you need to do now, not later and extend the love you have to extend this minute, not a second later because tomorrow may never come”. What about your immediate family? I’m happily married to my better half, Ijeoma Ilo, for 19 years now. My soulmate is a lecturer at the nursing department, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus and a nurse at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH). We are blessed with five lovely children namely: Sommie, Chikamso, Vinmartin Obiora jnr, Jacquelyn and my youngest child Didi. How do you unwind? I play golf; I drink beer with my friends (laughter). What have you been doing after retirement? I retired as Director, South-East Operations, Daar Communications. Presently, I’m the CEO of Signature Communications Limited and Executive Producer, O&M SHOW in partnership with AIT. Having spent over 35 years in media practice, what would you say is the most challenging aspect of this job? Honestly, it’s the failure of media organizations to adopt division of labour. In advance countries, as a presenter or host of a show, you have no business looking for advertisers or the logistics, it’s someone’s else’s job. Your job is to educate and understand the topics to be discussed with the guests coming on the show. Meanwhile, someone is supposed to do the research for you and look for high flying guests and topics. In Nigeria, you are the producer, presenter, researcher, funder and marketer of the programme. As a host or anchor, you are supposed to be shielded from the people you are going on air with; not discussing monetary matters, for the credibility of the show. It’s advisable to isolate reporters, presenters from marketers or advertisers of the show to avoid being bias and this affects professionalism. Most crucial challenge is the poor remuneration of journalists. Worse still, they are often owed by many organizations. Unfortunately, advertisers are not interested on hard news; rather they fund shows like Big Brothers Africa or talent shows. Interestingly, everyone wants to be on television, radio stations and grace front pages of the newspapers, but they are not concerned about the progress of the media house. What do you enjoy most been a broadcaster? The fulfillment of knowing that you could set agenda; programmes or articles to change the fortunes of an individual or save a dying fellow. The privileges to affect the society, power to work around Abuja and discover something, then publicize it for government intervention. However, investigative journalism where an ordeal is exposed and someone loses his/her job. There is also positive power where hard work is commended; the privileges to invade people’s home or offices to make them listen to you. Meanwhile, we also have destructive journalism where fiction is created to tarnish one’s reputation (aka gorilla journalism). Among all these, developmental journalism is the ultimate; Could you select on some of the big events you covered? As a diplomatic correspondent with AIT between 1986 and 2006, I covered major events in the world among which are the 1997 British Parliamentary Elections. The Republic of Benin Parliamentary Election. A year after, I covered OAU Summit in Addis Ababa Ethiopia in 1999. In 2002, I covered the Zimbabwean Elections; in 2003, the Intifada (Israel). The British General Election in 2005; and Guangzhou International trade fair in China. Also, I can’t forget in a hurry our novel coverage, which was led by me in Awka, when Chris Ngige was kidnapped as the incumbent governor. However, I got a letter of commendation from Anambra State government and management of AIT, for the one month meticulous live coverage. If not broadcaster, what else would you have been? Maybe, I would have been a Nollywood star or advertising guru. What were your experiences working with government as a Senior Special Adviser? I was grateful on the job; but it took a long time before I decided to work for government because of the privileges I was enjoying at my work place (AIT). In 2007, I served as Special Adviser, Media to Former Governor, Enugu State, Sullivan Chime. I was also a member of Enugu State Executive Council. However, my job exposed me to the challenges government workers face every day. It’s also exposed me to the hypocrisy of people working in government. Bureaucracy has really eaten deeply into our governmental system.  Failure to receive your dues as at when due is also part of it. Instead, you are expected to lobby or beg, which automatically gives room for corruption. I discovered a lot of people were cautious of acquiring wealth for themselves; instead of executing their core duties. There were a lot of image damages, people could frame stories to destroy the reputation of another. Again, I appreciate God for the experiences. Also, understanding humans from a different perspective and the vast knowledge acquired. In journalism, what you learnt practically on the job, can’t be compared to Harvard graduate qualification. I will forever be grateful to my boss, High Chief Raymond Anthony Aleogho Dokpesi for giving the platform to discover myself professionally and academically. What is your impression about young journalists? Some journalists are desperate about stardom; more than professionalism. A lot of us lack the journalistic pride, which is best described as self-pride. We must recognize the fact that this profession distinguishes us. We determine what people discuss tomorrow and can make an ordinary person a superstar. So, every practitioner must have professional pride by respecting yourself. While working with other professionals, don’t feel intimidated and make sure you do your job without bias. Disgracefully, a journalist on duty to interview a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and you are bowing down; falling for him. Why? You have distinguished yourself in the profession. So, when interviewing a general you should feel like a general in your profession. A lot of journalists go for interviews; without having knowledge about the topic of discussion. It’s imperative you develop yourself academically to stand out in your profession. Also, organizations should consider advancing their workers with seminars. In addition, young journalists should dress decently and package themselves well, because the job also entails physical presentation. As an advocate of style; I admire neatness and looking good. Could you tell us a bit about your fashion statement the bowler hat? I love wearing bowler hats, but I wear more of red caps which depicts royalty and my chieftaincy title as the Ebubudike. However, my taste for style also revolves stylish interior decorations, accessories, cars and they don’t have to be expensive.