President Muhammadu Buhari’s wife, Aisha, has come calling one more time. This is her second major outing on her ailing husband. She was down to earth in her pontification.
The timing was just right and appropriate. This time around, she was tactical and her choice and use of words very effective.
Actually, the senator from Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, did the kick-off. He drew her out of her shell. He stirred the hornets’ nest. He wittingly posted on Face book:
“Prayer for the absent Lion King has waned; until he’s back then they will fall over each other to be on the front row of the palace temple.
“Now the hyenas and the jackals are scheming and talking to each other in whispers; still doubting whether the Lion King will be back or not.
“Now, the lion King is asleep and no other dares to confirm if he will wake up or not.
“It is the wish of the hyenas and the jackals that the Lion King never wakes up or comes back so that they can be kings. It is the prayers of the weaker animals that the Lion King comes back to save the kingdom from the hyenas, the wolves and other predators.”
The message was not lost on Aisha. That encouraged her to action. And she did the needful by dropping the timely bomb:
“God has answered the prayers of the weaker animals. The hyenas and the jackals will soon be sent out of the kingdom. We strongly believe in the prayers and support of the weaker animals.”
Aisha posted this all the way from London, where she is tending her unwell husband. She returned to the UK last week after her first trip in June. She told us then that the President was “recovering well.” Her latest post was meant to be a confirmation.
But from all indications, Aisha is still frustrated, pissed-off and miffed. You could dissect that from her utterance. Just like her first major outing, she couldn’t swallow the bitter pill anymore. This is written all over her.
Unfortunately, things have not changed for the better since then. The mess is becoming messier by the day. The aroma has gone from bad to sour.
She is angered by the same hyenas, jackals, wolves and baboons that warranted her October 2016 outburst when she poured her innocent heart out this way:
“As a person, I have my right to say how I feel about something. If it continues like this, I am not going to be part of any movement again, because I need to work with the people that we started the journey with collectively so that we can achieve what we want to achieve, so that he would leave a legacy.”
Even in faraway (West?) Germany, her husband laughed off her frustration: “I don’t know which party my wife belongs to, but she belongs to my kitchen and my living room and the other room.”
But this second time around, Aisha is wiser to change tactics. The President’s wife actually took the bull by the horns. She is determined and resolute. She believes the end justifies the means.
She is stronger now than ever before. That is why she could effortlessly go philosophical. She has resigned to fate. And she is taking events in her strides. She is firmly holding her destiny in her own hands.
We need not bother to ask, the hyenas, jackals, wolves, baboons, hangers-on and do-gooders know themselves. They have got the stern notice that their time is up. Time is speedily running out on them.
That is why they are so brazen in their recent operations. They have turned themselves to bulldozers in Aso Rock. They really want to pull the Rock down and empty the Villa.
They don’t care a hoot whether the Lion King comes back alive ore not. By whatever means, they must tenaciously hang on to power. They are like locusts on the Rock, very deadly and weird. They are perpetually on their dastardly moves, day and night.
Succinctly, Aisha has picked some useful lessons. She is mastering the robe fast. She was dramatic and creative this time around. She showcased astuteness in passing her message across. It couldn’t have missed the target; it pointedly hit it.
Aisha should worry less she is extremely lucky. The “weaker animals” are still engrossed in prayers for her husband. Ask Turai Yar’Adua she never enjoyed that luxury.
Honestly, it is hard to fathom why there was no such sympathy for the late President Umaru Yar’Adua. Some of the principal characters that publicly celebrated his ill health and literally wished him dead are arrogantly calling the shots in this government. What an irony!
And Buhari was one of them. Remember his famous outpouring when Yar’Adua was between life and death? Let us assume they pretend to forget. A quick reminder: Buhari never pretended to have prayed for Yar’Adua’s recovery.
See what he offered him in his hour of dire need; albeit, the most critical period of his life. Courtesy Daily Sun, Wednesday, March 10, 2010:
“Former Head of State, General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), has declared that the only solution to present political uncertainty in the country is for the National Assembly to set machineries in motion for the impeachment of ailing President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua.
“The 2003 and 2007 presidential candidate of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) made the declaration yesterday while addressing members of the National Unity Forum (NUF) who visited him in Kaduna.
“… Buhari was more forthcoming when he further said the Federal Executive Council (FEC) must save the nation from the current agony by declaring the president incapacitated to pave the way for his impeachment.
“… Insisting that the constitution has specific provisions on how an ailing president could be succeeded, even as he noted that the refusal by the FEC to respect and apply the constitutional provisions had led to the present crisis in the country.
“… If the FEC had acted in accordance with the constitution by invoking the necessary sections to declare the president incapacitated, we would not have found ourselves in this present situation.”
What goes around comes around!
Oh God of all flesh, teach us to tame our tongues.