By Gilbert Ekezie It is more advisable to combine the use of Pykure herbal capsule and Pykure ointment for effective performance in the treatment of anorectal disorders like piles, fistula and fissures. Also, cuts, wounds, burns and cracked heels could be effectively treated with the two Indian Ayurvedic formulations solely marketed in Africa by AKO Group of Companies. Chief Executive Officer of AKO Group of Companies Limited, Mr Obiora Atuchukwu, who gave this insight explained that the importance of the products cannot be over-emphasised given that they are made from a combination of various herbs. He said herbs used in producing the two medicaments are sourced from the Himalayan range of mountains in India and other areas where important herbs and plants are found. Atuchukwu who spoke on the efficacy of herbs, pointed out that Pykure herbal capsules have put smiles in the faces of many who had almost lost their lives due to piles and other anorectal disorders, happily noting that they are now free from the ailment after using the medicine that has no side effect. “I am very happy that Pykure herbal capsules for pile and other anorectal disorders is living up to expectation. I could remember what was applicable those years when piles disfigured, frustrated and killed many when an  effective remedy was not available. But today, Pykure is on ground to face the challenges with good results,” he said. Atuchukwu said that Pykure ointment was also introduced to help in the fast relief of pile. “While Pykure capsules work and bring healing from the inside, the ointment is for external use. The ingredients used in producing Pykure ointment include, Achillea Millefolium, Calendula Officinalis, Aloe Barbadensis, Azadirachta Indica, Camphoria, Curcuma Longa, Mentha Avenisis etc. The ointment has the quality of showing miraculous results in giving relief to those suffering from all types of anorectal disorders and that is why it is recommended and suitable for those who need it, Atuchukwu said.” He also explained that the medicines have saved patients from the agony of going through surgery, hospitalization, physical, mental and financial strain. “While Pykure capsule is safe for oral consumption, the ointment is for external application. Another good thing about both products is that they have no side-effects. They can be taken regularly as recommended. He further pointed out that he manufacturer of the products duly certified that they are patient-friendly and do not affect the day-to-day routine of patients. “As I usually say, Pykure capsules and the ointment do not contain narcotics, heavy metals, steroids and alcohol. So, they are both good for consumption and application for a better resul