By Chinwendu Obienyi As part of its commitment to connect and engage with its customers by celebrating friendship and friends across Nigeria and deepen its brand proposition to premium lager, 33 Export, recently treated consumers to a three-day City of Friends party in Lagos.
Speaking to pressmen, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager and Stout brand, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Agu Emmanuel, said the City of Friends party was designed as an avenue for friends to have fun and exchange banters, adding that it is tied to the world friendship day to mark the celebration of friends across the globe.
“The purpose of the city of friends first and foremost is tied with the world friendship day marking the celebration of friends across the globe. That is the first strategic trust and then we brought it down to Nigeria in such a way that it becomes an avenue where friends gather together, exchange banters and celebrate their friendship because 33 export brand is a brand that extols the values and virtues of friendship”, he explained.
He further said, “Already 33 Export brand has been positioned for friendship, so what we are doing is to reinforce our position because if we say we are a friendly brand and the world is celebrating friendship on July 30, and we are not part of it, are we really telling ourselves the truth? So we are keying into the world friendship day and we have brought it live and direct to our consumers here in Nigeria by designating this place as the city of friends.”
According to him,” This is our maiden edition and next year it could move to other locations in Nigeria as one cannot only have friends in Lagos but across the globe. Going into 2018, 2019 and 2020, the City of Friends will move to other cities in Nigeria because friendship is a universal phenomenon.”
Agu thereafter assured consumers that the 33 Export brand will continue to thrive on the friendship platform, adding that more events will unfold in the meantime.
“Consumers of the brand should continue to expect the friendliness of 33 export in everything that we do because this is the only beer brand in Nigeria that is brewed with friends in mind. This is the only beer brand that has numeric code as its name, 33 is the code of friendship so we thrive on the friendship platform and that is what we are bringing to our consumers as they should expect more events in the near future”, he said.  