By Maduka Nweke Members of the Awkuzu Progressive Union (APU) in Lagos have donated a block of five classrooms to the Unity School in Awkuzu.
Awkuzu is in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State. The facility was inaugurated recently by the Anambra State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Kate Omenugha.
Speaking after the laubch, Mr. Nnakwuzie said the development of the town was a task for everybody, adding that giving back to the society was a way of helping others.
His words: “We are aware of the enormous needs of the school and we decided to pick this one because whatever you would need, shelter is top need, in line with Maslow’s theory. We plead with the students not to lower the tempo of performance, which the school is known for.”
During the ceremony held at the school premises in Awkuzu, Omenugha commended the APU, Lagos, for the gesture and assured them that government would continue to ensure that its pledge of making students in the state achieve the purpose of being in school through qualitative education was ensured.
Omenugha promised that all efforts by groups to encourage students through the provision of infrastructure in the state would never go unnoticed by the state government. She said the present government was putting education in the state on the front burner.
Said the commissioner: “We are aware of the infrastructural decay in some Unity Schools and public schools, and plans have also been mapped to tackle them head-on and make learning conditions in the state very conducive. We are also aware of the priorities of schools with boarding system in the Unity Schools and we are already compiling the dilapidated structures in them for onward attention by the governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano. The access road, the science laboratory, among others, will be given their deserved attention in due course,” she said.
In his contribution, the chairman Oyi Local Government Area, Hon. Charles Uchenna Okafor, who hails from Awkuzu, noted that under the watch of Omenugha, Schools in Anambra have done well, adding that students in the state had brought academic laurels from Singapore and other places.
According to him, Omenugha has proved to be the best commissioner for education in Anambra State, going by her performance. He noted that the project being launched was one of the numerous community efforts the town has continued to make to sustain government facilities in Awkuzu. He, therefore, asked the other chapters of the union to emulate the APU, Lagos, in other projects.
Earlier, the principal of the school, Mrs. Adeline Nweke, also praised the commissioner for helping to make schools in the state live their dreams.
In his statement, Chief Raphael Ogugua, vice chairman of APU, Lagos, said that the aim of building the classrooms, apart from giving back to the society, was also to support the government of Obiano, who “has not rested on his oars in making Anambra State the best in the country.”
“We also want to use the project to encourage the students to take their studies seriously, since the needs of the schools are already being noted by all and sundry in Awkuzu.
“As long as they keep performing well, we will keep making their facilities better,” he said.
Ogugua stressed that the block of classrooms were donated to the school to address the infrastructural deficits in the Unity Secondary School, Awkuzu.
Chairman on the occasion, Dr. Okey Umeano, commended the APU, Lagos, for remembering their roots and hometown. He also urged the state government to continue the good work seen under Obiano.
Chief Kit Emetarom, former Chairman, APU, Lagos, and former President-General, Awkuzu Progressive Union, who witnessed the handover, also commended the APU, Lagos chapter, even as he urged the members to continue the good works they have been doing.