By Bianca Iboma perturbed by the rate women die of cancer yearly, Mrs. Tourism United Nations World and Mrs. Nigeria United Nation, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Enemchukwu, has in Lagos, sensitised women to early breast cancer detection and prevention.
She claimed 85 per cent of women who have breast cancer do not have a family history of women suffering from the infection, saying that it could strike at anytime. She reminded participants that the disease was the second leading cause of death among women.
She said her aim was to raise awareness of the importance of knowing how to carry out self-examination on the breast.
She maintained that women should be able to recognise the symptoms of breast cancer and encouraged them to partake in regular breast cancer screening.
She also unveiled a foundation, called Women Are Beautiful Inside and Out (WABIO): “Every year new cases of breast cancer occur with many being invasive forms of breast cancer. My reign as a beauty queen ends July this year but I still want to be involved in charity and the vehicle to drive that service is through the foundation.
“The foundation was established to both raised awareness on breast cancer and its prevalence in today’s society, as well as to drive opportunities for funding. The disease limits a woman’s view of herself; her ability to breastfeed and can result in surgeries.
“Breasts are primary identifiers of what makes a woman, and having to have them removed is the fight against breast cancer. Breast cancer can make a woman have depression. Cancer is not just a health issue; it has far reaching social and economic implications.”
She added that when cancer strikes, it leaves its victims with two choices; either to identify the disease on time and deal with it appropriately amidst discomforts, or identify it late and suffer the consequences of late detection, which most likely leave tales of sorrow, pain, tears and perhaps, death.
She explained that either way, just like day turns into night, the victims have to live with their new status and submitted that that was the picture of cancer when it visits; showing no mercy: “People wonder how a medical personnel, who educates women suddenly became a victim.   