By Desmond Orjiakor ONCE again, it is the season of campaign in Anambra State (Home For All). With the expiration of the tenure of its ebullient governor, Willie Obiano, aspirants are springing up for various elective positions. But the major question is: Who calls the shots at Government House, Awka? The issue of who occupies the driver’s seat in this gateway state in the Southeast and home to Nigeria’s erstwhile Governor-General, Rt. Hon. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the Owelle of Onitsha, is in contention. In fact, there are more than 25 politicians (some contenders and others pretenders) angling for the slot of the state’s chief executive. Some of the names being dropped include Chief Godwin Ezeemo, Hon. Stella Oduah, Chief Nicholas Ukachukwu, Dr. Obinna Uzor, Senator Andy Ubah, Senator Chris Ngige, currently Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chike Obidigbo, Dr. Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah, Nze Akachukwu Nwakpo, Barrister Chinedu Idigo, Mr. John Emeka, Hon. Uche Ekwunife, and many others. Splendid is the current! Yet, only a few seem to be talking about issues; about what they would do that would add to what Willie Obiano has done. Much as Nigerians would appreciate a situation whereby people of varied opinions and backgrounds are allowed to join the fray, what is really surprising is that most of our politicians are bereft of ideas. A critical study of the interviews granted and comments made by these Anambra gladiators shows that some of them are either bending on their self-aggrandizement or are simply galvanizing avenues for cheap appointments or “settlements”. However, a few of this battalion of contenders are dead serious in their bid to lead Anambra State to a greater height. In their deft political calculations and brilliant articulation of issues, it is glaring that they are not just out to pander to undue affectation to humour the public or create an unusual mileage on the hustings. One of such personages who appears to be the darling of Anambra youth and the teeming masses especially traders, is Senator  Andy Uba, a serving senator of the Federal Republic who wants to serve his people with zeal. Given his background as one who had been governor and now a serving senator, Dr. Andy Uba has full grasp of the intricacies of power and statecraft. Alas, this cool, unassuming politician possesses the uncanny gift of understanding even the dark and the labyrinthine. He also comes across as not only possessing a profound appreciation of power but having its most penetrating insights as well. What gladdens the heart about this warm and enterprising personality is that he knows what he intends to achieve for the people of his state. For instance, commenting on what better changes he would bring about in the burgeoning economy of the state, he started by reasoning that his intention is to correct the imbalance and  improve on what is on the ground. He has posited that first and foremost the state could only move forward in an atmosphere of peace and mutual trust. He has said that Anambra people deserve quality democracy dividends to justify their mandate to a governor. The APC governorship aspirant has promised to concentrate on infrastructure and empowerment of the people. Andy Uba has also thought of encouraging people to go into manufacturing to open up the economy of the state; establishment of an airport to make for easy movement of goods for businesses to thrive. Promising that he would also take security matters to a higher dimension, Senator Uba said that his good antecedents would guarantee him the APC ticket. One of the things that make the people to insist on this young man coming on board is his plan to tackle the ecological crisis enveloping the state head-long. In the state, several communities have been washed away by gully erosion of a devastating variety. Very recently, it was reported that the Federal Polytechnic, Oko and the entire community where Dr. Alex Ekwueme, Nigeria’s former Vice President comes from, are under serious threat of being washed away by erosion. It is, therefore, heartwarming that Dr. Andy Uba has a holistic transformational agenda for the state if given the opportunity to serve. Others might share similar vision with him. But what gives him an edge over and above his fellow contenders is his enormous reservoir of love for his people. The man has a zeal which is tempered by disarming humility and generosity. Above all, Andy Uba has age on his side. All over the world, opportunities are given to the youth to serve because they have the energy and drive to work for the people. He is set to run a bold government driven by a bold vision for the future of Anambra State. His plan to attack youth unemployment, combat the menace of crime and address the environmental degradation threatening the state, the housing issue and distribute infrastructural development across the state is commendable. The people of Anambra State should be encouraged to make wise and intelligent choices. For effective governance of the gateway state to the South Eastern part of the country, Andy Uba is the ultimate bride. Orjiakor writes from Abuja.    