National Union of Textile, Garment, Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN) has advised the Federal Government to establish a National Institute for Tailors to boost their skills.
General secretary of the union, Mr. Isa Aremu, at an event organised by the Nigeria Union of Tailors (NUT) in collaboration with NUTGTWN to mark 50 years of tailors in Lagos, said establishment of an institute would enable Nigerian tailors to compete favourably with their international counterparts in skill and education.‎
According to him, with such an institute, tailors could acquire higher academic qualifications and be addressed as professor or doctor of fashion.
He called on the federal and state government to empower tailors financially to expand their business and contribute more to the economy.
“Lagos tailors are working today and everybody is happy. Where there are jobs there is peace and development,” he said.
The labour leader prayed that insecurity, especially kidnapping, in the state would soon be a thing of the past so that people would concentrate on their jobs and contribute to national development.‎
Mr. Idowu Adelakun, Lagos State chapter chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), blamed unemployment for the rise in kidnapping and insecurity in the state.
He urged the state government to continue to support tailors to enable them contribute to the growth and revenue of the state.
Also, Mr. Wasiu Taiwo, national president of the NUT, said that tailors needed more training because development of human capacity was the key to meaningful development.
“We need equipment to train our tailors because we do not have what it takes to showcase our profession. There is no tailor in the country that produces en mass and there is nothing to compare with international standard when we are producing in large quantity,” Taiwo said.
He disclosed that there were plans to set up a sewing production hub to enhance the skill of many tailors as well as create employment.
In his remarks, president of NUTGTWUN, Mr. John Adaji, commended the Lagos State government for the loan scheme aimed at artisans and other self-employed entrepreneurs in the union.‎
Adaji called on the state government to focus on industrial revival and support the informal sector of the economy to enhance the status of Lagos as a mega city in the country.