By OLUMIDE LAWAL THAT late Senator Isiaka Adetunji Adeleke lived a beautiful life, full of robust achievements is not contestable. His life was a testimony of goodness and patriotic service to humanity. He left nobody in doubt, that he was one of the finest politicians ever produced from this part of the world. He came angelically and transited gracefully and gloriously, resting peacefully in the bosom of Almighty Allah.
Therefore, politics in Adeleke family is synonymous with selfless service to the people – particularly the down-trodden masses. It is, therefore, not applicable to the Adeleke family, as being erroneously canvassed in some quarters, that they are in politics to make wealth. This is blackmail that holds no water. The Adeleke family built its financial empire through the grace of God, spartan discipline, hard work and prudent management of resources. So many people have benefitted from the family large-heartedness, without any string attached to such favours.
The esteemed Adeleke dynasty, has been championing the tenet of politics without bitterness and violence, since the hero of the family – Late Senator Isiaka Adeleke became the governor of Osun State in 1992 and laid a solid foundation for the state. What point, therefore, are detractors of the family trying to establish, by making wild comments and unjust accusation, concerning the painful and sudden death of Senator Isiaka Adeleke on April 23, 2017. It is sad that they are turning facts on its head as far as reference to the family’s stand on the same issue is concerned.
The family came up with a press conference addressed by Dr. Deji Adeleke where he called for absolute observance of peace and maintenance of law and order on the parts of the sympathizers. That went a long way to bring calmness on all sympathizers who were genuinely “crushed” by the sudden death of our beloved Senator Isiaka Adeleke. What else was expected of the family, who are still in deep grief to convince political traducers, that the family is a promoter of peace and concord.
Otunba Ademola Adeleke’s efforts at contesting the vacant seat of Osun West Senatorial District, is every inch justifiable, as a law-abiding and eminently qualified citizen of Nigeria. It is more of a right for him, to signify interest, coming as it were from the esteemed Adeleke family, where the late Senator Isiaka Adeleke hailed from. In other climes, it is a matter for the political party, which late Senator Isiaka Adeleke represented at the senate, to call on his family to nominate somebody to complete his remaining two years. All the same, the Adeleke political eminence in Osun State nay Nigeria, necessitates putting one of their own forward. Where is the fault of the Adeleke family in enjoying and exercising this priviledge, in a situation not badly tainted by politics of vendetta and acrimony, as witnessed in APC.
In the United States of America, the Bush family produced father and son as presidents of the country. Chuba Okadigbo died as a Senator and his wife succeeded him. The Adeleke family, ordinarily should have been offered the opportunity to bring one of their own on board by APC, the party Isiaka Adeleke represented before his death.
It is a matter of conjecture for whomever to think that Otunba Ademola Adeleke was not a member of APC before he left it. Otunba Ademola Adeleke registered at Sagba/Abogunde Ward in 2014 for APC alongside his late political mentor – Senator Isiaka Adeleke. He presented his membership card at the screening exercise and was cleared by the Committee. It could not have been possible for him to scale that hurdle, if he has no APC membership card. He duly paid for all relevant forms to qualify for screening. Why will some mischievous people stop at nothing to drag the good name of the Adeleke family in the mud, for cheap political gains and belly-aching? They have failed woefully in their nefarious activities.
Otunba Ademola Adeleke was not a political coward as some people would want the public to see him, all by pitching his tent with PDP. It is an unassailable fact that he enjoys every right to identify with any political party, where he thinks his ambition could best be realized without partisanship or constraints in whatever form. That is the beauty of democracy. It is practised all over. And so far, his wide acceptance in the course of his campaign to different local government areas has shown that he is the candidate to beat. The peasants have spoken. They have given their fullest support to Ademola Adeleke for the July 8, election. God works in a miraculous way, His wonders to perform. Ademola Adeleke’s candidature under PDP is a manifestation of God’s support for Isiaka Adeleke and continuity of his laudable legacies .
Let me state that Senator Mudasir Hussein did not in 2015 concede ticket to Late Senator Isiaka Adeleke, as being falsely canvassed in some quarters. This is far from the truth. Late Senator Isiaka Adeleke, through his well-grounded political structures, which he brought from PDP, in addition to other contributions of the Adeleke family, went a long way to ensure the victory of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola’s re-election in 2014. Late Senator Isiaka Adeleke, together with Otunba Ademola Adeleke were involved in rigorous campaign outings throughout the length and breadth of Osun State with Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola in his second-term bid.
But now to mischievous people, Otunba Ademola Adeleke was never an APC member. Glory be to God for paving the way for him to leave the party. Late Senator Isiaka Adeleke was eminently given the ticket based on his towering political image and invaluable contributions to the success of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola at the 2014 poll, in addition to the massive followership he brought from PDP on decampment.
Ademola Adeleke’s opponents should wait till July 8, 2017, when the voting public in Osun West Senatorial District,will unanimously cast their votes for him. There is no gain-saying the fact that voters in Osun West District are ready to continue to give their unalloyed support to their beloved Senator Isiaka Adeleke, whose death they are yet to come to terms with. Lawal writes from Ede, Osun State  