I have been zealously promoting herbal medicine in the last five years because it was what cured me of diabetes fifteen years ago. Yes, I mean cured, not controlled, as orthodox medical doctors always assert claiming that the disease is incurable and can only be subdued with tablets taken all of one’s lifetime to avoid high blood pressure, stroke, liver, kidney, blindness and other organ problems or early death. I say I am cured of diabetes because since 2002 when I drank the powder – like herbal medicine prepared for me by an octogenarian man in Ado – Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, I have not till today taken any drug for the disease, whether orthodox or herbal. This is because in the last 15 years my blood sugar (or glucose) level taken during fasting period test, that is before having the first meal of the day, have always ranged from 75 – 91 milligrams/deciliter (mg/dl). Which falls within the universally approved medical scope of 75 – 126mg/dl or 5.5 – 6.5 millimole (mmol) for a non – diabetic person, depending on the type of kit used for the examination. According to dictionary meaning, a millimole is a thousandth of a mole, the amount of any chemical substance that equals the number of atoms in 12 grams of carbon – 12). My blood glucose level was 200mg/dl when I was diagnosed with diabetes in 1992. But with orthodox drugs, diet control and regular exercises it came down to about 135mg/dl in 2002. So, it was the herbal medicine I took that year that cured me of the disease, while watching what I eat, the quantity I take, not having dinner after 7pm and doing aerobics daily or every other day have kept me away from having diabetes till today. I spent just about two thousand naira for the herbal medicine that cured me. Imagine the thousands of naira I spent taking orthodox drugs for ten years (1992 – 2002) and would have spent in the last fifteen years if I had not been cured of the disease in 2002. A development that made me to immediately withdraw from the Diabetes Association of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter which I joined on August 4, 2001 with membership card number 2176. I started writing on herbal medicine in 2012 when a landlord in my neighbourhood died suddenly of diabetes. I had told him a few months earlier to go for blood sugar test as the way he had put on weight within a short time was an indication that he might have the disease. And that if it is so he would have to see a doctor and be on drugs. He rejected my suggestion in Jesus’ name, telling me that as a born – again pastor of a Pentecostal church, such a disease could not be his portion and that he had never fallen ill since he gave his life to Christ ten years earlier. But a few weeks after my advice, he collapsed at home and was rushed to the hospital where it was discovered he had chronic diabetes with a blood sugar level of over 300mg/dl. Before long he had stroke and was bedridden and unable to move any part of his body in his last nine months on earth. After the piece I wrote five years ago, a number of readers with diabetes asked me for the telephone number of the old man who cured me of the disease. But I could not be of assistance to them because he died in 2005. But as luck would have it in 2013 I met Dr. Adeola Isaac Odeyemi, a Ph.D. Computer Science degree holder, who trained as herbalist in 1991 with the native doctor who cured him of stomach ulcer he had for 29 years. Thereafter he went for a diploma course at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi – Araba, Surulere to learn how to prepare herbal medicine scientifically. I approached Odeyemi when I heard that he had cured a niece of mine of stomach ulcer with herbs and as a result I wrote a series about him from September 17 – December 3, 2014. Some of those who read my articles and bought his medicine got in touch with me that his drugs were efficacious. I published the comments and numbers of some of them which included those sent by the owners of GSM number: 081 – 5759 – 7967 and 080 – 3471 – 6826. This made many other readers to request for Dr. Odeyemi’s telephone number or address. In the end, a total of six hundred and seven people reached out to me. I have had to give this background information to show that it was because I had personally experienced, and seen the effectiveness of herbal medicine on other people with different diseases, that I am drawing attention to the news of a Nigerian woman, Omuaran, Kwara State – born, Mrs. Oluwasola Folarin, who I was told cures prostate cancer with herbs. A disease that orthodox doctors cannot handle if the cancer has spread beyond what surgical operation can take care of. I took the information on her seriously because of the caliber of personalities I heard it from. I first got to know about her from Chief Ebenezer Babatope (a.k.a. Ebino Topsy), the Minister of Transport and Aviation from November 1993 – February 1995 in the federal cabinet of late General Sani Abacha. He told me of Mrs. Folarin’s story when in March this year we lost a bosom friend, an Igbaja, Kwara State – born retired army colonel who died of prostate cancer in Lagos. He spent about three million naira on treating the disease, having gone to India two years ago for surgical operation accompanied by his wife. When the illness relapsed last year he was admitted at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi – Araba, Surulere and was later transferred to a private hospital where he died in March. Ebino, who was very sad when he heard that it was the disease that claimed the life of our buddy of 52 years association, said he wouldn’t have died if he had been aware of his situation in time. Because another pal of ours and that of late colonel, Dr. Adeniyi Adedeji (Ph.D. Political Science), a former senior lecturer at the University of Ife, Ile – Ife in the 1970s, has friends who had been cured of prostate cancer by Mrs. Folarin. Although Niyi, a colleague and course – mate of mine at the University of Ibadan (1965 – 68 set), gave me her phone number in April, I did not call her until recently when a reader with perennial malaria problem and two others with diseased prostate glands, one of them in cancerous state, phoned to ask me for Dr. Odeyemi’s number. But since he doesn’t treat prostate cancer and malaria, it was Mrs. Folarin’s number I gave to them. I met her last week Tuesday, when I was at her family’s residence in the Kosofe – Ketu area of Lagos. Although I have not spoken with anyone she was said to have cured, but I believe the story about her expertise from the discussion I had with her. First, when I informed her I was cured of diabetes in 2002 with herbal medicine, she interjected saying it was the powder-type and described the colour and the number of times it is taken. She is the only herbalist I have met in the last 15 years who has such knowledge and that it is drunk with either water, or for faster result, with one’s first urine of the day. Next week: The concluding part coming along with Sir. Amos Ofoneme’s tribute on Dr. Christopher Kolade, the broadcast and corporate guru.