From: Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has assured the President of Guinea, and the current Chairman of  the Assemblies of Heads of State and Government of the African Union, Alpha Conde, that he was making good progress with his health. He added that as soon as doctors advise, he will  return to his duties soon and continue serving the Nigerian people who elected him. Buhari who has been out of the country for 77 days, wrote to thank  Conde, for the nationwide prayers held last week by Guineans for his recovery and good health. The Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina in a statement said the assurance was contained in a letter to the Guinean President  dated July 24, 2017. According to the Statement, “President Buhari, who had earlier made a phone call to Conde, who is the current Chairman of  the Assemblies of Heads of State and Government of the African Union, stated: “I thank you for your kind and thoughtful action in organizing nationwide prayers for my good health. It is a gesture that I will forever cherish and treasure. “Your Excellency will be pleased to hear that I am making good progress, and as soon as doctors advise, I shall return to my duties and continue serving the Nigerian people who elected me and are daily praying for my recovery.” The statement said Buhari had in an earlier letter, accepted his nomination as leader of the “2018 AU Theme on the Fight Against Corruption”, which came from African leaders at the 29th Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the AU in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on July 4, 2017. “While thanking you for the kind words and for the nomination,” the President wrote to Conde, “I wish to express my readiness to accept this new important role and to reiterate my commitment to contribute towards our collective efforts to strengthen good governance and development on the continent. I, therefore, look forward to working closely with you in the realization of this objective.” Show original message