By Fred Ezeh No fewer than 350 scholars, comprising  pastors, teachers and other religious leaders, from 50 countries across Africa have teamed up to produce a unique and simplified interpretation of the Bible’s words and verses in a book titled “Africa Study Bible.” The idea behind the “Africa Study Bible” was to produce a book that would simplify the study of the Bible, thus giving divine guidance to Christians to properly understand the content and language of the Holy Book. According to the authors, the book was written in five languages and further broken down in layman’s language with illustrations to drive home the messages in the verses, words and phrases of the Bible, thus making it easier for Christians to understand. The project manager, “Africa Study Bible,” Dr. Matthew Elliot, told newsmen at the public presentation of the book in Abuja recently that the project was the result of the collective efforts of different Christian leaders in Africa. Elliot was convinced that the unique book would guide every Christian in the journey of faith. He insisted that, with the “Africa Study Bible,” no one would ever be misled or misguided in theur Christian walk, because the book contains a breakdown of God’s word in layman’s language. He said: “The book is critically important for Africans because Christians in Africa outnumber Christians in other continents of the world. And there was a prediction that by 2050 nearly 40 per cent of the world Christians would be found in the sub-Saharan Africa, and these people need resource materials that would speak to their culture.” Meanwhile, the supervising editor of the project, Dr. John Jusu, has said that among 2,600 notes and features in the over 2,100 pages of the book, there are 58 articles that provide solutions to issues such as sex, politics, justice, suffering, Western religion and the environment. In addition, the book contains 66 introductions, 298 touch points, 82 learning notes, 569 African proverbs and stories that illustrate scriptures, 1,262 application notes and a narrative timeline that highlights God’s amazing work in Africa. 