From Romanus Ugwu, Abuja  An All Progressives Congress (APC) aspirant for the Anambra governorship of election, Dr. Obinna Uzoh, has said he is the most qualified person to emerge the party’s standard-bearer and win the November 18 governorship election.
Uzoh, who spoke after returning his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the party headquarters in Abuja yesterday, gave assurance that he would focus in industrialising the state and empowering the youths.
While arguing that experience in both public and private life stands him out from other aspirants, Uzoh insisted that if there were any aspirant to benefit from the arrangements to pick a consensus candidate, he would certainly be the person.
In his words: “Having being into business for a long time now, I have all it takes to reposition Anambra State. I am not a new person in the game, having contested for the same position in 2003. I have garnered enough experience from that mission; even prior to it, I had experiences on governance.
“My mission is to bring good governance to Anambra and make the state great again. I will go beyond the basic provisions of social amenities to implementing the party’s manifesto. It is not a good record that my state has not been privileged to with the party at the centre.
“We want to be with government at the centre so that the state can enjoy the benefits. I believe that with the great leadership and cooperation of people like our National Chairman and the President Muhammadu Buhari, we can get the dividends of democracy to my people.
“I strongly believe that I am the most qualified person to govern Anambra state going by my antecedents, experience and relationship, being a seasoned lawyer and businessman, philanthropist and versatile person.
“As a great philanthropist, I have done lots of things for my people and I believe that I will do more than what I have done in the past, as an individual, if I have the opportunity to serve Anambra. I am mentally and psychologically ready to govern Anambra.
“You also know that my state Anambra is erosion prone. Now that the world is talking about global warming, we need to do something about erosion problem in Anambra. The control of erosion is very important. You also know that the most important basic need in my state is human capacity building. I have been on this for a long time, as an individual, and I intend to continue and do more as governor.
“As I said earlier, I am versatile and well-equipped to make a state better. With the kind of business done in my state, with the human capital and resources the economy of our state is supposed to be very good. We have capacity to build industries and manufacture things. We will do our best to take electricity to areas that may not have got it. We will do a lot in agriculture.”
Ask his reaction from talks that the APC may opt for a consensus candidate, he quipped: “Any arrangement by my party is welcome by me because I am a party man and I will always agree with my party’s decision. So, if the decision of my party is to pick a sole candidate, I need not fear because I believe I will be the chosen one.”