By Ifeoluwa Abimbola Eat right at night
Don’t eat heavy foods and big meals too late. They overload your digestive system, which affects how well you sleep. Have a light evening snack of cereal with milk or crackers and cheese instead. Finish eating at least an hour before bed. Rethink your drink
Alcohol can make you sleepy at bedtime, but beware. After its initial effects wear off, it will make you wake up more often overnight. Warm milk or chamomile tea are better choices. Watch what time you sip
Want to lower your odds of needing nighttime trips to the bathroom? Don’t drink anything in the last 2 hours before bed. If you have to get up at night, it can be hard to get back to sleep quickly.Keep a nightlight in the bathroom to minimize bright light. Lower the lights
Dim them around your home 2 to 3 hours before bedtime. Lower light levels signal your brain to make melatonin, the hormone that brings on sleep. Use a 15-watt bulb if you read in the last hour before bed. Hush noise
Faucet drips, nearby traffic, or a loud dog can chip away at your sleep. And if you’re a parent, you might be all too aware of noises at night long after your children have outgrown their cribs. Use a fan, an air-conditioner, or a white noise app or machine. You can also try ear plugs. Turn down tobacco
Nicotine is a stimulant, just like caffeine. Tobacco can keep you from falling asleep and make insomnia worse. Many people try several times before they kick the habit. Ask your doctor for help. Beds are for people
A cat’s or a dog’s night moves can cut your sleep short. They can also bring allergy triggers like fleas, fur, dander, and pollen into your bed. Ask your vet or animal trainer how you can teach your pet to snooze happily in its own bed. Free your mind
Put aside any work, touchy discussions, or complicated decisions 2 to 3 hours before bed. It takes time to turn off the “noise” of the day. If you’ve still got a lot on your mind, jot it down and let go for the night. Then, about an hour before you hit the sack, read something calming, meditate, listen to quiet music, or take a warm bath. Even 10 minutes of relaxation makes a difference. Use caution with sleeping pills
Some sleep medicines can become habit-forming, and they may have side effects. Ideally, pills should be a short-term solution while you make lifestyle changes for better Zzzz’s. Ask your doctor what’s OK. Know when to see your doctor
Let her know if your sleeplessness lasts for a month or more. She can check to see if a health condition such as acid reflux, arthritis, asthma, or depression or a medicine you take is part of the problem. 