The ‘Ojuloge’ Monument unveiled by the Lagos State Government (LASG) on Thursday to celebrate womanhood and educate the public on how to discourage violence against womanhood. Gov. Akinwumi Ambode of Lagos State said this during the unveiling of the structure erected at the open intersection between the National Theatre complex and the Nigerian Breweries complex at Iganmu, Lagos State. Ambode was represented at the event by the Lagos State Special Adviser on Urban Development, Mrs Yetunde Onabule. ‘Ojuloge’ is a Yoruba term roughly translated as “the beauty of a woman is in her face and her eyes”. Ambode in his speech said, “The commissioning of this monument is also part of the activities to celebrate Lagos @ 50. “The structure depicts the beauty of the Lagos woman and seeks to educate the public that our culture does not tolerate any form of abuse on our women. “The abstract monument called ‘Ojuloge’ conveys a sense of style and fashion as well as depicts the concept of a beautiful Lagos woman,” he said. The governor said that the statue alongside other monuments across the state represents an important part of Lagos State’s commitment to promote tourism. “This will serve as an important tourist attraction and also tell our stories to visitors in a creative manner.
“The statue represents who we are as a people. It also represents our heritage which can be preserved for generations coming behind us.’’ Ambode urged the public to protect the statue against vandalism through inappropriate and unauthorised contact to guarantee its longevity. Also, the state Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mrs Adebimbe Akinsola, said that ‘Ojuloge’ was just one out of 19 structures to be inaugurated across the state. Akinsola said that the Lagos State Government remained dedicated to attaining excellence in the state using tourism, arts, culture, hospitality and sports to achieve this purpose. “Since the inception of this present administration, there has been tremendous development in all sectors across the state transforming Lagos State to an Iconic city,” she said. The commissioner also assured residents of the state that the six art theatres would soon be established. She also said that the state government would renovate the National Art Theatre, Iganmu. Mr Olurotimi Ajayi, the Chief Executive Officer, Modupe Studio, said that the concept of the structure depicted the richness and glamour of the Lagos woman. Ajayi said that the idea originated from the age long idea where people talked about women as ‘Sisi Eko’. He said that if the structure was well preserved it could last forever for the education and benefit of future generations. (Source: NAN)