By Ifeoluwa Abimbola The popular vegetable, onions have been used for thousands of years as an ingredient in various dishes by many cultures of the world to add flavor and an aroma to dishes. Onion can be eaten raw, cooked, fried, dried or roasted.
Although it is best known for two things: bad breath and tears, this vegetable, asides providing an excellent taste in our meals, onions provides many health benefits to its users, such as a therapeutic and antibacterial properties that cleanse and detoxify our bodies to eliminate disease. Fact: Onions contain a high amount of sulfur compounds, which not only give onions recogniSable smell, but also a powerful detoxifying agent, according to experts, like Dr. Jonathan Stegall, an integrative medicine practitioner. 8 health benefits of onions, they include:
Fights cancer: Onions extract is rich in a variety of sulfides, which provide some protection against tumor growth. Some research have shown that regular consumption of onions help to reduce the risk of several cancers such as oral cancer, stomach cancer, colorectal cancer, laryngeal cancer, and ovarian cancer.
Experts suggest to regularly consuming one onion serving per day (approximately half cup). Reduce blood sugar levels:
The regular consumption of onions has been shown to lower the blood sugar levels. A study showed that onions contain allyl propyl disulfide that helps to reduce the glucose levels by increasing the amount of insulin. Cardio vascular benefits:
A study found that regular consumption of onions lowers high cholesterol levels. This is attributed to the sulfur compounds, chromium, and Vitamin B6 in onions, which helps prevent heart disease by lowering high homocysteine levels, a potential risk factor for heart attack and stroke, according to a source. Relieves tooth decay:
Raw onions can make our breath stink, but they can actually improve our oral health. Chewing a raw onion for two to three minutes could kill all the germs in the mouth, strengthen teeth and eliminate bacteria. Placing a small piece of onion on the affected tooth can also relieve toothache.
 
Treat urinary disorders:
Onions has diuretic properties, useful in treating urinary disorders. For those suffering from burning sensation during urination, drink water boiled with 6 to 7 gm of onions. This may relieve the symptoms, according to informationng.com. Relieves cold and flu:
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recognised the onion for its ability to help relieve flu symptoms, such as cough, congestion, bronchitis and respiratory infections. Improve digestive function:
Onions is a good source of dietary fibre and prebiotics that encourage the growth of good bacteria (probiotics) in the digestive system, thereby improving digestive function. Good for skin:
The stimulating agent in onions helps to circulate blood in the mucous membrane. It can be applied as poultice to boils, bruises, wounds, etc.  Onion juice mixed with honey can be the best home remedy for acne.
Source: healthzine.com 