…Says: ‘I always carry Olubadan-in-Council along in appointing new chiefs’ From: Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso I, has dismissed a claim that he did not carry members of the Olubadan-in-Council along in the appointment and installation of new chiefs in Ibadan. He said Olubadan could not do anything without consultation with the council, though the role of the council is basically advisory. Oba Adetunji made the clarification in his reaction to statements credited to the Otun Olubadan, Sen. Lekan Balogun, and Balogun of Ibadanland, Chief Owolabi Olakulehin. The duo had alleged that the monarch did not carry the council along in the appointment of some chiefs, especially the new Iyaloja of Ibadanland. Olubadan, who stated that he is not an absolute monarch and as such he is not authoritarian contarary to speculation, said: “How else do you carry your lieutenants along other than following established procedure for appointment of chiefs by tabling the matter and calling for dispassionate discussions in the council?” A statement by the Director, Media and Public Affairs to the Olubadan, Mr. Adeola Oloko, Oba Adetunji specifically referred to the appointment of Chief (Mrs.) Iswat Amerigun and Chief Layi Olakojo as Iyaloja and Mayegun of Ibadanland, respectfully. He maintained that the ‘High Chiefs’ were duly carried along before and during the chieftaincy installation ceremonies. He stated that the minutes of the meetings showed that both Chiefs Balogun and Olakulehin were quite aware ahead of the ceremonies. On the conferment of honorary chieftaincy title of Mayegun of Ibadanland on former Secretary to Oyo State Government, Chief Olayiwola Olakojo, by the Olubadan recently, he said: “Contrary to their claim that they attended the installation of Chief Olakojo to honour former President Olusegun Obasanjo at the Olubadan palace, I wondered if it was possible for the two ‘High Chiefs’ to know that Chief Obasanjo was going to attend the installation ceremonies, if they had not been briefed and invited ahead of schedule. Concerning the installation of Iswat Amerigun as new Iyaloja of Ibadanland, which the two chiefs were said to gave alluded to, Olubadan stated that the criticism of the two chiefs was most unfortunate. He stated that all the chiefs were duly served by the council scribe, Mr. Kamorudeen Liasu. Tracing the battle for the post of Iyaloja to December 2016,  Olubadan asked: “Are the High Chiefs Balogun and Olakulehin denying that the Olubadan-in-Council did not receive petitions alleging gross financial misconduct against the deposed Iyaloja, Madam Labake Lawal as far back as December last year? “Are the High Chiefs claiming ignorance of the invitation of the two combatants and their supporters to the Olubadan-in-Council meeting where they were given the opportunity to state their own sides of the story as far back as January this year? Didn’t they listen to the deposed Iyaloja admitting that the association’s money was diverted to her private account with tellers tendered? “Has High Chief Lekan Balogun, who claimed that he was not carried along, suddenly forgotten that he was the head of the four-man committee set up to probe the allegations against the deposed Iyaloja? If in doubt, the press should ask him why he failed to turn in his reports after the one week time frame up till today? What about a case of financial inducement reported at the palace by one of the probe committee members to leave the deposed Iyaloja alone? “Those who claimed not to have been carried along were at the meeting where the new Iyaloja was installed. Even, some of the complaining High Chiefs took pictures to congratulate the new Iyaloja. And as is custom, all the High Chiefs who were present collected the traditional gifts that go with the conferment of the installation ceremonies of all the chiefs including the new Iyaloja. “So, if you go to equity, go with clean hands. Flagrant disregard to anointed authority is an abomination; especially in Yorubaland. Therefore they should wait for their own turn.”