From: TONY JOHN, Port Harcourt The 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt,  said it has  killed a notorious cultist known as ‘Supreme’,  who has been on the wanted list of the Rivers State Government,  and arrested a member of his group in the State. Deputy Director Army Public Relations of  6 Division, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, in a statement released, on Tuesday, said that the dangerous cultist was killed by troops of 29 Battalion deployed at Ebubu, Eleme Local Government Area and the Anti-Robbery Team of 6 Division Nigerian Army deployed along Port Harcourt – Akwa Ibom road. Col. Iliyasu disclosed that the  troops carried out a successful raid operation in Sime Community in Tai Local Government Area of the State following a tip-off,  adding that during the operation, the troops engaged in gun duel with members of the dreaded Dey Gbam Cult group led by Supreme, who has been on the wanted list of the State Government. He said Supreme was shot during the gun battle and later died of excessive bleeding, while several others escaped with gunshot wounds. According to him,  one Mr ThankGod Ndunaka, a suspected member of the cult, was arrested and handed over to the Police for further investigation. He stated that items recovered from them during the raid included: one SIGP228 Pistol with registration number 299MM E225 and 10 rounds of 9mm ammunition. “The authorities of Headquarters 6 Division hereby warns that it will henceforth clamp down on persons or groups indulging in any form of criminality within Rivers State and across its entire Area of Responsibility at large. “All cultists and criminal elements are, therefore, warned to desist from such ignoble acts and embrace the Amnesty Programme currently being offered by the Rivers State Government.  The Division also wishes to reassure the peace-loving people of Rivers State of the safety of their lives and property”, the spokesman of the Division said. The Division has solicited the cooperation of residents of the State to fish out such criminal elements from among them, by volunteering useful information that would assist in nabbing them. 