His name is Olayode Favour Oluwatobi. He is one of those who sat for this year’s Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB)’s Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), his first attempt, for that matter. With exam no: C42508103 and registration no: 76364867JG, Olayode who sat for the exam at Oduduwa College of Professional Studies, Egbeda, Lagos, made 287, (details: Use of English: 61, Mathematics, 84; Chemistry 67 and Physics 75), is hopeful of reading his dream course, mechanical engineering, at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). In this chat with The Sun Education, he tells the story of how he emerged one of the high scorers in the exam, despite the hurdles on his way: “I had tutorials for some months at Distinction Way Academy,, Lagos. The tutors in the tutorials helped me in preparing for the exam. They taught me techniques on how to answer questions on time, especially in mathematics. They taught me how to rely on my head than use of calculator. With it, I was able to answer more questions quickly. “I was also taught how to read a comprehension passage fast so as to save time and use it to answer other questions and, at the same time understand the passage. The book that helped me, as recommended by the tutorials is Fundamental Formulas. The textbook contains procedures on how to answer questions on comprehension passages and other aspects of English. Before then, I would just read the comprehension passage and try to answer the questions. But whenever I do it that way, it is not always easy because I always make mistakes. But there, I was taught me to go through the questions first and then read the passage. That way I would understand the passage better. I don’t have to go through the passage over and over again as some students do because it really takes time. When you go through the questions first before going through the passage, it saves time. “In mathematics, I was also taught some formulas but the questions that we were asked were not really related to formulas, just pie-chart, bar-chart, histogram and variation. They did not really require formulas. But I answered questions on simple interest. The formula is very short and precise. Two questions came out on simple interest. There were forty questions in mathematics, Use of English, 60 questions, Chemistry and Physics, 40 questions each. “In Chemistry what I read and expected wasn’t really what I saw there. I am very good in calculation so I expected more of calculations but what came out was more of theories than calculations. But the questions were not too hard. It was the same thing with physics; it was more of theory than calculations. “I registered with Bafuto Institute of Computer Science, Ikotun Egbe, Lagos. I had some softwares on my phone, it’s like an application. I had ‘Jambite’ and I also had ‘Jambody’. Those two applications are similar to the softwares they use in the exam. I was able to practise with the two applications and master CBT. “I was really prepared for the exam, so I had no fear. There is a saying that if you fail to prepare, you are preparing to fail. Those that had fears are those who did not prepare well and those who were intimidated by the tale of woes of other candidates. They told them it was hard, so they were scared. But I was prepared, so I was not scared. “During the exam, I didn’t have any problem using the computer system. The centre was perfect. Oduduwa College of Professional Studies at Egbeda, Idimu Road. Over 200 sat for exam at the centre. There was no complaint whatsoever. They had good stand-by generators. There was no report of system breaking down. I don’t know about other centres but that centre was very, very ok. We had no problem logging in and logging out. No complaint. “The reason I chose to read mechanical engineering is because I am someone that likes calculation. I also like fiddling with anything mechanical – generators, machines. I work on machines. I know I have some interest in mechanical engineering. It’s what suits me. “I like UNILAG. I have been there one or two times. I like the building structures and the serene environment. It is also close to my home in Lagos. I wouldn’t like to school in a place that is far from home. And, my parents also finished from UNILAG. So, for us, it is a kind of tradition.”