From George Onyejiuwa, Owerri The people of Ntueke Community in Ideato South Local Government Area of Imo State, had cause to rejoice  recently when a USA-based Non-Governmental Organization, When in Need (WIN) carried out a three-day free medical treatment for over 600 persons, especially elderly men, women and children in the community. They were treated for various ailments and also received free drugs and eye-glasses. The team led by its founder and Chief Executive, Ms Chetachi Ecton Nwoga was accompanied by a serving USA Senator, James Sanders Jr, five doctors, nurses, 16 eye specialists, pharmacists and laboratory scientists to ensure that the people got effective medical treatment. Earlier, the WIN team had carried out a similar marathon free medical treatment at Mbaise, the home town of the founder for three days. According to the founder, the organization registered five years ago in the USA  has also extended its humanitarian services to South America and Europe by assisting the most vulnerable in those countries with the payment of their hospital bills, scholarships and provision of decent accommodations. “The main objective of the foundation is to help those in dire need…Imo like most of states lacks basic medical facilities and so the majority of the people who cannot afford to pay the high cost of being treated in private hospitals are simply left to their fate, especially the elderly men. This is evident in the large number of the people who came out for free medical treatment. “Last year, we were at the IDP Camp in Kuchungoro in Abuja where we provided the people not only with food stuffs, mattresses and beddings, but also malaria drugs and other medicaments to help them pull through this difficult situation. We have also provided water for the Upe community in Ngor Okpala,” she said. Ms Nwoga said embarked on the foundation because of having been in a similar situation where she could not afford decent meals, and clothing for her children said that she understands what it was like to be in abject poverty. Senator Sanders Jr, representing the state of New York, said he had to come to Nigeria for the first time because he was impressed by what the WIN foundation had been doing. Some of the beneficiaries called on other wealthy individuals to emulate her example. Elder Ubawuike Anokuru, a retiree, who was full of gratitude to the foundation, said that he had been suffering from hypertension and had not been able to buy the drugs for lack of money. 