From Fred Ezeh, Abuja Federal Government yesterday challenged the newly appointed members of the governing council of federal universities to justify the trust and confidence bestowed on them and support the effort of government to revamp the universities system.
Government encouraged them to dig into their pool of experience and knowledge to revolutionize the system, restoring the lost dignity and glory of the university system.
Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, who gave the charge in Abuja when he administered the oath of office to the new governing council members of 23 federal universities reminded them that their appointment was not based on recommendation but on merit and competence.
He challenged them to operate within their statutory responsibilities to avoid clashes or misunderstanding with the vice chancellor or other management staff of their respective universities.
As the highest policy making organ of the university with the overall responsibility for making statutes for the organisation, policy, structure, powers, development, financing, and general management of the universities, the minister urged the members to take responsibility for the acquisition of landed and other forms of property for the use of the university.
They would also be responsible for the control of the affairs of the university, approve the financial guidelines of the university, determine terms and conditions of appointment of the vice chancellor and principal officers of the university among several duties as contained in the Universities Amendment Act (2003).
Adamu highlighted possible areas of conflicts and pitfalls encountered by the governing councils, which in some cases might force the government to take rational decision including the dissolution of the council in line with section 2A of universities act 2003.
Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Rasheed Adamu, said plans were underway to organize a retreat for the members to further update them on what was expected of them to do to enjoy a cordial relationship with the principal officers for a successful tenure.
Dr. Wale Babalakin who spoke on behalf of other members thanked government for finding them worthy to contribute to the growth and development of Nigeria’s education system.
He assured that the current crop of council members, with the support of the universities would move the institutions foward.