•We’ll resist it, they vow From Moshood Adebayo and Chinelo Obogo, Lagos and Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Former governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has warned the military high command not to truncate the ongoing democracy, saying Nigerians will resist such a move. Similarly, the House of Representatives yesterday flayed the rumoured plot to circumvent democratic rule and warned that military coup was no more fashionable. Deputy Speaker, Yussuff Lasun spoke at a one-day public hearing on 12 bills on the amendment of the 2010 Electoral Act. Tinubu and Lasun spoke amid concerns about the recent revelation by the Chief of Army, Lt General Tukur Buratai that some politicians were talking with military officers for political reasons. Tinubu said on the floor of the Lagos State House of Assembly during the Special Parliamentary Session to mark 50th anniversary of Lagos State that any attempt to return the country to the dark era of military rule would not be tolerated. “I will like to sound a caution to us all the precious thing we have – democracy that we are now trying to perfect is not guaranteed to us. We must sweat hard, yet think wisely, if we are to keep it.  There will always be some people who want to undermine democracy. These people gain more from the government in the dark. “Just a few days ago, we had a warning that some people were trying to entice the military out of the barracks. I say don’t try it. I want to add my voice to that warning. Those who think they can break the democracy so many of us laboured and for which too many people died, sacrificed their lives, they are sure mistaken. “Nigeria has come too far for such a thing to happen. Those people behind such idea will find no fertile ground to plant their seed in Lagos. We will not buy their bad product; whatever they want to sell is a bad product and we are going to reject it. We tell them, move away from here because Lagos State will resist it, Lagos State is saying move away from it, don’t think about it, we are all staying together to grow our democracy,” Tinubu said. Lasun stated that democracy should be allowed to thrive in the country. “It might be trivial or right. But what we have heard in the last two weeks, not because of the position we occupy, but because of the level we are in Nigeria’s today, is worrisome. “Having practised democracy for 18 years unbroken, I wouldn’t know why some military people want to think that it is time again to come back to the governance of Nigeria. It is going to be a little bit difficult. Democracy at its worst is still the best form of government,” he stated. Meanwhile, Tinubu described the legislature as vital to the welfare of the people and challenged the lawmakers to exercise their power with utmost responsibility. “Wise laws and policies upgrade the people and improve their circumstances, but bad laws suppress them and lay their wealth to waste. While most of the public attention is on the executive, it is this House which passes the laws in which the executive must act. Without the legislature, the executive is hamstrung. “All executive actions must have the backing of the law, and on top of this is the power of the legislature over appropriation. Before any money is spent, the legislature must appropriate for it. This part of the legislature must be exercised with utmost responsibility as fulfilling the dual role of lawmakers and representatives. “Without the necessary collaboration between the executive and legislature, there may not be effective governance. So, there has to be partnership and not tension,” Tinubu, a former senator noted. At 50,  he said Lagos State has cause to celebrate, bearing in mind the achievements she had recorded so far. “In the midst of the celebration, it is important to place emphasis on the need to create more opportunities for the people. We also have realized that we need to do more in order to create more opportunities, better education, improved housing and more jobs for many of our people so that all can witness the full blossom of growth and prosperity,” he said. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, in his address said the state had been a shining example and critical hub of socio-economic and political development. “Today, we are celebrating the contributions of the Lagos State House of Assembly, particularly the eighth Assembly in the last two years, to the true principles of democratic governance through passage of Bills that advance the principle of governance and promotion of social welfare of the people within the ambits of the Law. “It is on record that military incursion into governance has always made the legislature its first victim by suspending the constitution with all powers against the wishes of our people. Therefore, the Legislature can be said to be the most exposed in governance model in the current democratic dispensation, if we have to give its true meaning and relevance in a representative government.” He said the harmonious relationship between the three arms of government in Nigeria which is reflective in the governance model of Lagos State promoted the interest and welfare of the people. “Over the years, the Legislative arm of government in Lagos State has been a shining beacon of democratic independence and responsiveness. It has never shirked its assigned role or responsibility even in the face of provocation. It has continuously engaged the electorate in the process of making laws through interactive engagements and contributions to the making of Laws,” he said. One of the guest lecturers, Prof. Patrick Lumumba, Director of Kenya School of Law, Nairobi, Kenya, who spoke on the theme: “The importance of the legislature in democratic governance”, said for the country to return to its glory years, the legislature must be willing to bring down corrupt governments. “We must ask ourselves that having made the decision to adopt a euro-centric approach to governance, complete with of the three independent arms of government. Separation of powers is nothing but division of labour. The legislature occupies a significant place in a democracy and it is powerful because they represent the people. It is therefore assumed that those who have been elected as legislators see it as a privilege not as an opportunity to lord it over the people.” 