From: Kemi Yesufu, Abuja The alleged violation of the 2016 Appropriation Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act in applying the sum of N7.2 billion in the 2016 budget of the police may soon be re-examined by both chambers of the National Assembly, Daily Sun has learnt. Investigation also shows that the House of Representatives’  Police Affairs Committee is set to re-invite Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, over  the matter. The House had, on Thursday, January 12, summoned IGP Idris over violations of the 2016 Appropriation Act, the Fiscal Responsibility Act and the Public Procurement Act. The House said the police boss had to explain why the sum of N1.2 billion approved in the Appropriation Act of 2016 for the purchase of ten (10) numbers of Armoured Personnel Carriers by the Nigeria Police Force was diverted for the purchase of sixty-four (64) Toyota Hiace Commuter vehicles without the approval of the National Assembly. The House also said the IGP must give an explanation on how N6 billion appropriated for rehabilitation and reconstruction of One Hundred and Two (102) Police Stations nationwide was allegedly diverted for other uses without the approval of the National Assembly. The resolution of the House followed the adoption of motion by a member, Gabriel Onyewife on the refusal of the IGP to honour an invitation by the Committee on Police Affairs, chaired by Halliru Jika. Daily Sun had reported on January 20 that though Idris obeyed the directive of the House to appear before Jika-led committee, the meeting was held behind closed doors. Jika confirmed the IGP’s appearance before his committee in January on phone yesterday but declined to give further details on the matter. However a ranking member of the Committee confirmed plans to completely re-examine the whole matter. “We will re-examine the issue to ensure proper utilisation of funds. As a parliament, we frown at any kind of diversion or misapplication of appropriated funds without recourse to the National Assembly”, the lawmaker said, on Tuesday. When asked if the re-examination of the matter has anything to do with the recent raid on the Abuja residence of chairman Senator Committee on Appropriations, Danjuma Goje, the lawmaker dismissed such speculation, saying members of the National Assembly are simply doing thier job. 