From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Acting President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday,  confirmed another Chibok schoolgirl has returned, barely 12 days after the release of 82 of the girls abducted by Boko Haram.
Osinbajo announced the new release during the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting which he presided over, yesterday.
Apart from the girls who escaped on the night of the abduction, only 22 girls had been either released or rescued so far.
While one of the girls was rescued following an operation by the Nigerian Army, 21 others were released following negotiations also involving Red Cross and the Swiss government last October.
The latest rescue brings the number of the girls still missing to 112.
President Muhammadu Buhari’s Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, disclosed this to State House Correspondents, in Abuja, after the meeting.
Adesina said the girl is in Abuja, to join her colleagues who were released, recently.
“Yes, at the FEC meeting, the vice president broke the cheery news to members of the cabinet and, after that, I spoke to the (Ministry of) Defence people who confirmed it. Details are yet to fully unravel. But, yes, it is true. I learnt she is already being brought to Abuja, but, I have not seen her.”
The presidential spokesman expressed   hope that the remaining Chibok schoolgirls and other Nigerians in captivity would soon be rescued.
Adesina, however, dismissed the assertion that Boko Haram members have started regrouping in Sambisa.
He said the Federal Government has the capacity to confront any security challenge arising from any part of the country.
“One thing you can be sure of is, this government has the capacity to confront any security challenge that arises.
“If they are regrouping, they will be flushed out again. I believe we have seen the worst of the insurgency. We are in a mopping up process and I believe the mop up would be completed.’’
The 82 girls recently released were in exchanged for some Boko Haram commanders who were held by the federal government.
They were released to international negotiators, who have been working in collaboration with the federal government, for their safe return since their abduction in April 2014.