From: Bianca Iboma Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State has urged youths to show more interest in the sciences, arts and craft, in order to contribute their quota to development of the country. The governor who spoke through his deputy, Mrs. Idiat Oluranti Adebule at the grand finale of the Science, Arts and Craft, Exhibition and Talent Hunt held in the state, said nothing immortalizes than invention which impacts lives positively. He said it is only Nigerians that can find solutions to peculiar collectives challenges facing the country. The programs was  organised by the state  Ministry of Education as part of the  activities lined up for the 50th anniversary celebration. ” We  alone can create solutions to help us adapt better to our peculiar situation. A lot of young Nigerians are doing big things abroad today and I am very positive that the young Nigerians at home can do even better. You can also write your name on the sand of time by inventing something that the world will marvel at. “Our government through our wealth creation programmes in partnership with the private sector and the Bank of Industry is set to help you develop any invention and produce them en-masse for a larger market. “Through our Employment Trust Fund, we would continue to support Small and Medium Scale businesses who are the drivers of innovation world-over. We are determined to grow our Small and Medium Scale Enterprises. The economies of Japan, China Singapore and Malaysia among others have been identified to have been built on the vibrancy of SMEs. Most of the materials we import are produced in small apartments by young men and women like you  in these countries”, he said. The Convener of Live Abundantly Initiative  Dr Ama Onyerinma commended the students for their prowess in home made technology. The focus on excellence and innovation in their skills would bring value added change to learning. Onyerima added that, Nigeria can effect sustainable growth in her economy through youths education and enlightenment programmes, noting that the students were able to source locally made materials to developed their work. ‘ This shows creativity and need more of such opportunities  of industrial awareness to developed “,she said. programmmes in the state so as to encourage industrial awareness among them. Also, Chairman Art and Craft, Mrs Polly Alakija said collaboration is needed to address human capital development in Nigeria. Asset sustainability is a major challenge in Nigeria. Let the government invest in human  capital development as it would them have a fruitful and rewarding result she said. 