From: Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Former Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Prof. Olusola Oyewole, has disclosed that he handed over to an acting vice chancellor, Deputy Vice Chancellor, Development of the institution, Prof. Ololade Enikuomehin, because the process of appointing his successor was still on when his tenure expired. Oyewole, who equally stated that he had no regrets overseeing the university in the last five years, made this known, on Tuesday, while answering questions from journalists shortly after handing over to the acting Vice Chancellor, at the Council Chambers of the University, during the 6th Inaugural meeting of the newly constituted Governing Council, chaired by the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council, Barr. Aboki Zhawa. Daily Sun recalls that Oyewole, had a face-off with the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) of the university, which culminated into SSANU petitioning the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged misappropriation by the outgone VC. He was later charged before an Ogun State High Court sitting in Abeokuta on 18-count charge. But Oyewole, speaking yesterday, insisted that despite the imbroglio, he never regretted his vice-chancellorship noting he was still part of the system. “By the grace of God, we have made our contributions and our university is moving to greater heights. “We have gone round the campus today,  we have seen the various structures and infrastructures that we have put in place and our commitment is to see to the advancement of this University. I am still part of the system and I know the University is in the good hands. “In life we face challenges but we know that we shall overcome all the challenges that come our way.  I have no regrets. All that I can say is to thank God for His grace and mercies. I keep on looking up to God to do my best. I am still in the University system”. He stated. He, however, admonished members of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU), who had gathered to bid him farewell, to keep on embracing peace in moving the university forward.