From: Paul Osuyi, Asaba The Delta State Government has embarked on the clearing of blocked drains within the Asaba capital territory as a measure to forestall flooding in the metropolis as the rains set in. Areas so far cleared include Ogbelo quarters, Okpanam road, Ibusa road, Nnebuisi road, Jesus Saves Road, Anwai Road, SSS Road, High Court Road, DBS Road, all the link roads and streets around the cenotaph and behind Government House, Cabinet Office road and GRA Police Station Road. Director-General, Special Programmes to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Mr. Frank Omare, who led the clearing exercise, said the state government has ordered constant clearing of all drains and other water channels in Asaba. Omare disclosed the new approach to checking the worrisome and devastating flooding problem in Asaba is informed by government determination to seek permanent cure to the ravaging flooding whenever it rains. “There are a good number of drains and water channels in Asaba and its environs. His Excellence is aware that constant blocking of these drains and channels was the major cause of the flooding. “He has therefore directed regular clearing of these drains to channel the water to the Anwai river. The governor has asked me to be firm, diligent and committed to the directive despite challenges that may be faced in the cause of the assignment. “I have engaged over one hundred laborers, got some heavy duty equipments, including bulldozers, pay loaders and tippers for easy and fast evacuation. “We work every day of the week, Saturday and Sunday inclusive. We even worked on Easter Day to make sure that the ravaging flooding have minimal effect on the people. “In the past, Asaba residents suffered so much as a result of flooding whenever it rains. Properties destroyed, roads and streets rendered impassable, even in some cases people cannot leave their houses. We want to reduce these to the barest minimum,” Omare said. He advised residents to stop dropping waste on the drains and ensure they clear their surroundings regularly and evacuate the debris generated to approved dump site. “Government has been preaching this sermon to Deltans. I am once again appealing to all to take seriously the message for the good of all. I believe that with the new approach, the problem of flooding will soon be a thing of the past,” he assured.