President of Italy’s Chamber of Deputies, Hon. Laura Boldrini, told Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, yesterday, that 37, 000 Nigerians migrated to that country in 2016. Boldrini disclosed this during a visit to Dogara’s office, yesterday. This was just as Dogara identified loss of hope for economic opportunities among young Nigerians as a major reason for taking risky journeys to Europe. But, Dogara stressed that for efforts aimed at checking terrorism and illegal migration in Nigeria and the world at large to yield desired results, “there must be education and economic empowerment of citizens of developing countries.” Calling for partnership between the two countries to stop the tide of illegal immigration and terrorism in Nigeria, the speaker emphasised that government must empower people to get out of poverty and, “only then will individuals resist the lure to engage in crime or risk travelling to Europe through the Mediterranean Sea. “One of the problems giving rise to all these challenges is lack of economic opportunities. “The problem is that someone will really have to run out of hope for him to undertake these type of tortuous journeys, to transverse the Sahara Desert and even cross the Mediterranean Sea, to get to Europe. It means that there is generally loss of hope. “The truth is that, for us to deal with terrorism, illegal migration, trafficking and cross-border crimes, we have to address the issue of bringing prosperity to sister countries so that citizens are catered for and jobs are provided. “It is by investing in this country that we can provide the opportunity which can provide employment for the people who always want to risk all the dangers associated with migration. There will no motivation to engage in crime.” Earlier, Boldrini commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the rescue of 82 girls who were kidnapped from a secondary school in Chibok, Borno State, on April 14, 2014. The girls were rescued at the weekend. She also expressed willingness of Italy’s parliament to collaborate with its Nigerian counterpart, to rehabilitate Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the North-East, as well as tackle the menace of  trafficking in persons, especially young girls and women to Italy. Boldrini reiterated that 37, 000 Nigerians arrived Italy in 2016, and added that she supports a “unified effort for both countries to check terrorism. “Italy stands by Nigeria’s side to combat terrorism. We do appreciate your effort and believe that since terrorism is a threat to the entire world, we need to join forces in this regard.”