Notable leaders in Sapele, Delta State, on Wednesday, praised Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for his honesty in the management of state funds as well as his inclusive strategy, which they said opened a path to the unity of the people despite the language and political differences. In a statement in Amukpe, the leaders called on Deltans, home and abroad, to give maximum support to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. “When we look at the scorecard of Okowa, what readily comes to mind is how he has performed. The administration’s programmes are felt in the three senatorial districts. Delta is one of the few states where salaries are paid regularly. The traditional institution has received a boost and respect under the administration. Okowa has relentlessly pursued a vigorous policy for provision of social facilities and infrastructure. The administration has performed well in the area of roads development” The leaders commended the governor for positioning the state to achieve greatness and development. “The government has renovated many schools in the rural and urban areas. Okowa has made modest development in terms of health sector delivery to the people. There is state presence in all the communities. Okowa is a caring governor. He believes in merit and places priority on the welfare of the people” they said. The statement signed by the chairman, Sapele Political Forum (SPF), Mr. James Onoriode, thanked the people of Sapele for their relentless support in Okowa’s political undertakings. “Governor Ifeanyi Okowa is a man of principles and integrity” The leaders praised the youths for their support, which allowed the visit of the governor to go on smoothly. “Some individuals have been trying to destroy the PDP in Sapele” The leaders said one of the greatest steps forward was for political leaders in the area to unite. They praised Rt. Hon. Monday Igbuya for the outpouring of support to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa during his visit to Sapele. “Rt. Hon Monday Igbuya understands the challenges in the area and he is leading the people in a transparent, inclusive and transformative manner. He will work tirelessly towards achieving reconciliation” “Rt. Hon Monday Igbuya is a vibrant legislator; an astute politician and a grassroots mobiliser. He will continue to work closely with Governor Okowa to advance programmes of actions that will lead the state towards stability, progress and prosperity.