From: Lukman Olabiyi A Lagos-based businesswoman, Nkiru Kalu, who was recently arrested by National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) over alleged production of counterfeit product has been arraigned before the Federal High Court, Lagos. Kalu was arrested at kilometer 16, Ojo Badagry area of the state, on February 23, docked before court, on Wednesday, on four count charge bordering on production of counterfeit product, possession of counterfeit product, selling of unregistered product and obstructing law enforcement officers from performing their duties. M In the charge, the defendant was alleged to have produce and unwholesome processed food to wit; Ethanol drink (Ogogoro/ Kaikai), Kalu was alleged to have been possession of the product on the day of her arrest. NAFDAC also alleged that the product found in possession of the defendant was unregistered processed food  which is an offence under Section (1) (1)  of  Food Drugs, and Related Product (registration etc) Act Cap F33 LFN, 2004 and punishale under Section 6 (a)  of the  same Act. Other offence alleged to have been committed by the accused person Contrary to Section (1) (a)  of the Counterfeit and Fake Drugs and Unwholesome Processed Food (Miscellaneous Provision) Act Cap C 34 LFN, 2004 and punishable under Section 3 (1) (a) of the same Act. Besides, the prosecutor, Umar Shamaki also alleged the defendant on the day of her arrest, obstructed  officers NAFDAC in performance of their duties and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 25(1) of the agency Act Cap N1 LFN , 2004 and punishable under Section 25(1) of the same act. Upon reading of the charge to her, the accused pleaded not guilty and her counsel made an oral application for bail but the court rejected it. The trial judge, Justice O.O. Oguntoyinbo held that proper application for bail should be in written and not oral. The court order that since there was no proper application for bail it, the accused should be remanded in police custody at Alagbon, pending determination of bail application. Further hearing has been adjourned till May 31. 