Wooing a woman is not easy. It is not a day’s job. I am not talking about wooing cheap and classless women who don’t have future ambitions, I am talking about going after treasures that will bring meaningful contributions to your life and family. It’s appalling to see guys sneaking into girls’ inbox on social media supping, helloing and sexying them without trying to engage them in meaningful conversations. Some women are not moved by the meaningless lyrics you borrowed from Google, they desire men who can engage them intellectually. So if you are one of those men who think that by copying and pasting long poems and love quotes to a woman will make her fall for you, think again. Women are tired of your borrowed words. Can’t you people be original and engage the woman you are trying to woo properly? Some of you are so entitled that you think every woman you jump into her inbox to drool over her beauty and size of her breasts should say yes to you. Do you think you are cake? My friend, go back and re-strategise. You need to learn how to woo a woman and stop displaying your lack of manners in public. I don’t know why many Nigerian men feel entitled to a woman’s love, body and future. Who told you that you are the oxygen she needs to keep on living? Why do you think you should crash into a woman’s life like a car that missed its way and she must accept you? Some of you even lack the confidence to talk to a woman, yet you won’t allow us hear word by claiming men as if someone is dragging your man title with you. Believe in yourself and go after the woman you want, but not forcefully. Don’t say Kate told you to go after the woman you love with force. Women are sensitive creatures. Most of them possess some measure of empathy and can see right through you. This means if you are afraid or overly nervous approaching them, they can feel it. And since most girls like confident men, you get a huge disadvantage. So, before you go out to meet women, you need to create the right mindset. Boost your self-confidence. Remember that we all are humans and none of us is perfect. She may look hot, but she is not perfect. She wants to be understood, and she craves love. So, there is that vulnerability inside her. I am not saying you should take advantage of her vulnerability. If as a man, you have nothing meaningful to offer a woman other than your penis, stay away from her life. Most guys fail to court ladies just because they get too focused on themselves, on their looks, money and connections. You can’t keep yapping on and on about how much you have in your bank account and how you know even Donald Trump and expect her to be impressed. It’s not every woman who wants to hear you boast. You come off as a conceited person when you focus on yourself alone. What you fail to see is the woman you are interacting with. She has needs, too. She also feels insecure and maybe even lonely. If you can understand that and help her feel better, you can win her. If you are trying to woo a woman, make yourself available. You cannot be vanishing like a ghost when she truly needs you and expect her to fall for you. Being available helps her feel safer and more secure. Give her a call once in a while. Text her from time to time and do it several times a day. Contact her on social media, like her posts and write her a comment. This clearly shows your interest in her and makes you available for communication. Chase her, women like that, but do not cross the line and do not stalk her. And very importantly, pay the bills when you go out for dates but don’t use that as an opportunity to demand sex. That’s horrible. Some girls like to split the bills, but it’s nice when the man pays. Dating is and should be costly. No complaints about that, guys. Stop whining about how much you have spent on her, she didn’t force you to do that. After all, it would cost you even more, if you marry her. So, get ready. Guys don’t know that what drives women away from them is their continuous whining. Stay positive. Some guys become moody or take dates for the free therapy sessions. That woman is not there to hear about all your troubles in life. She is out to have fun and relax. She might have a bundle of her own issues, and she is looking for someone to cheer her up. So, leave your misery at home and get some fun. It is disrespectful to be out with a woman and your phone is beeping non-stop. Gadgets are excellent, but there is nothing more annoying than a date who is always checking their phone, emails or chatting with friends online. That’s bad. Turn the phone off. You can even do it in front of her to show her she is special to you, and you will focus all your attention on her. You must not meet that woman you are loving empty handed. Why should you go and meet your woman without bringing her gifts? Don’t you know that gifts open a woman’s hearts faster than your poetic talks? You should learn to give her gifts no matter how small. It is the thought that counts and not the size of the gift. Some guys complain about women not being really appreciative of their efforts. The only reason that happens is that guys are not paying attention. They get it all wrong. If you have been out few times with that woman, you should know what she likes and what her hobbies are. When you are wooing a woman, listen to her. Women love it when guys listen to them. Women love to talk and share their feelings and experiences. Listening to her cost you nothing, so do it. It’s the cheapest and most efficient way to show her you care. Why not use it? Keep your sexual desires down. I cannot stress this enough. Inviting you into her house is not an invitation to have sex with her. Guys, stop using your uncontrolled sexual desire to chase away good women from your life. It may be difficult, yes. She is so hot, has the right curves in the right places and you want her, but courting is not about sex only. This is where many men miss it. If that’s all you are interested in, see if she responds to that. If the girl is after lengthy relationship and you are after quick sex, be honest with her. Possibly all you need is to move on to the next girl. But if you love her, put sex aside for the time being. Focus on her personality instead of her body. Get to know her better. Ask questions and listen to her answers. Spend quality time with her and get fun dates. Do something together. Go to gym together. Go where you two can interact, talk and have fun. Sex will come later and without stress because you have wet the ground well. Be genuine if you truly want a good woman. Many men today are just players and hunters who just want to get women for cheap sex yet they keep complaining about meeting the wrong women. You can’t keep playing with women and think you can be blessed with a good one. You will get what you give out. We live in a world where being genuine has become such a rare quality and it can be seen the way many men lie to women these days. Many of them are fake beings, pretending to be who they are not in order to impress cheap girls. On many social media platforms, men create false images of themselves just to trap women they can sleep with. Be true to yourself, the woman who would love you will locate you. You can’t be deceiving ladies online and still have the nerve to call women liars and deceivers, are you okay? Opening up to a woman you are wooing doesn’t make you less of a man. Many men are brought up to avoid being vulnerable in front of a girl. You only open up in front of people you truly care about and are truly comfortable with. If you talk about your fears or your problems or what makes you sad, it will show her that you are really interested in her and not with her just to pass your time. If you are wooing a woman, mister, make her feel loved and special. Don’t think you can jump in and out of her life when she doesn’t give you sex after the first date, you are not serious yet. If you want a prostitute, you should go for one and stop wasting a serious woman’s time by pretending to woo her. So, there you have it. By now, you have an idea how to woo the woman of your dreams properly. Being a jerk and hopping from one woman to another is not life. If you truly love her, you will do the work before you reap the benefits. Don’t be in a hurry.