By Gilbert Ekezie Massive economic development witnessed in several countries in the past 60 years has seen people in different countries increasingly move away from traditional foods, to adopt the fast food lifestyle popularized and glamourized by Western society through Hollywood movies and television programmes.
The result is that globally, there is an increase in the incidence of systemic conditions such as heart disease, kidney problems and diabetes. As the World Health Organization stated in a report, an estimated 347 million people in the world are suffering from diabetes, a life threatening disorder that leads oftentimes to other health complications involving the heart and kidneys.
Chief Executive Officer of AKO Group of Companies, Mr. Obiora Atuchukwu explained that when diabetes has attained the form of a full blown epidemic, Diabiz can offer a helping hand, as it efficaciously controls the raised levels of blood sugar and also aids in proper utilization of insulin in the body system, regenerates β-cells of pancreas and protects the vital organs against diabetic complications.
He said going natural is the safest and surest approach towards diabetes. This, he explained, endows one with comprehensive care and protection. “The antioxidant-rich herbs not only help maintain normal sugar level in the blood, but also protect the vital organs from damaging effect of diabetes, promising absolutely zero side effects.”
Atuchukwu said that with years of extensive research, Diabiz, which is an effective Indian herbal tea has been developed by experts to efficiently combat diabetes. “Therefore opting for Diabiz, a natural solution that not only helps diabetics to lead a healthy, happy life, but also guards the pre-diabetics against the development of full-fledged diabetes is a right direction.”
Atuchukwu explained that about 60 to 70 percent of diabetics face some form of neuropathy, which might lead to foot ulcers and, even, gangrenes. “The eyes also bear the brunt of this disease, as the retina gets severely damaged with insufficient blood supply. This may lead to incurable blindness. The kidneys stop functioning normally; they neither respond to the usual medications nor this disease allows the patient to easily get a transplanted one. Surgeries are extremely difficult in diabetics.  But Diabiz herbal tea, which has no side effect, controls scariest danger of diabetes in a short period of time.”
The Indian Ayurvedic medicines dealer also stated that damage caused to the nerves and blood vessels lead to various sexual debilities. “Male patients usually complain of lowered sex drive, erection deficiency and, in the worst form, it may cause intractable impotency. Furthermore, motherhood is one of the most cherished experiences for any woman. But diabetes might prove a hindrance to this precious moment. Diabetic females have high possibilities of miscarriage.”
Atuchukwu said that limited or no time for exercise, spending most of the time online at work or leisure, traveling comfortably in luxurious air-conditioned vehicles and consuming rich food – mark the hallmark of economic growth, but these have invited numerous health hazards for human beings. 