Late legendary Chief Dr. Sunday ‘Oliver De Coque’ Akanite will ‘resurrect’ this Sunday, May 28, at O’Jez Bar & Restaurant, located at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, when the platform holds the May edition of its monthly show, Elders’ Forum. Among others, Darlington Akanite De Coque (aka Safine), the son of the late Oliver De Coque and an upcoming musician will take to the stage to treat guests to Highlife music. The climax of the evening will be the post-humus presentation of a Lifetime Achievement award to the legacy of Oliver De Coque which will be received by Safine. The event which kicks-off by 5pm promises to be a sharp departure from the norm as guests will be treated to a night of nostalgic music from one of Africa’s fast rising music artistes as Safine rehashes memorable and golden tunes from the stable of his demised father. Before his demise, the legendary Ogene Sound exponent and his Ogene Super Sound of Africa Band waxed over 73 albums according to Ogbuefi Ray Ifeme, his former manager. Prominent among artistes who have featured in the Elders Forum Party series since its revival are Miatta Fahnbulleh from Liberia, Jimi Solanke, Shina Ayinde-Bakare, Lady Julie, a renowned female highlife musician, Beautiful Nubia, Bayode Victor-Olaiya and Daisi Orlando – Owoh among others.     Nasarawa govt. honours Wale Adenuga From far away Nasarawa State, honour has come the way of renowned television producer and chairman, Wale Adenuga Productions (WAP), Mr Wale Adenuga.
For making positive impact in the film and television industry, Adenuga was on May 5, 2017 recognised and rewarded by the Nasarawa State Government at the maiden edition of Nollywood Iconic Personalities Awards held at Ta’al Conference Hall, Lafia, Nasarawa State.
The event was an opportunity for the government to recognise several individuals from different parts of the country who have made great impact by building the film and television industry to where it is today.
Adenuga received the award alongside other film icons like Zeb Ejiro, Tunde Kelani, Teco Benson, Sani Muazu, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Hilda Dokubo, Magaji Mijiyanwa, and Pete Edochie among others.
Adenuga, who was represented at the event by Mr Claude Mwamba, Business Development Director, WAP, says: “Since I established WAP over 40 years ago, it has always been my desire to give my all in contributing my quota to the socio-economic development of Nigeria through what I do best – entertainment. I really appreciate this award, and look forward to partnering with Nasarawa State, as well as other states in this beautiful country of ours, in showcasing the untapped potentials of their rich culture and tourism endowments through WAP’s TV programmes and channel.”
Over the years, Adenuga has established several award-winning entertainment platforms that have greatly improved the quality of the industry. These include SuperStory, This Life; Papa Ajasco, Reloaded; Nnenna & Friends; 24-hour family entertainment channel- wapTV, and the government-accredited PEFTI Film Institute.