By Moshood Adebayo Şapọn! It is a popular area in Abeokuta, Ogun State Capital. Beyond its popularity, it is also a commercial centre of the Gateway
State. It is a contraction of “Şapọnloore”, which literarily means,  “Be kind to bachelors.”
It is also an historic area, connecting other quarters and areas in the Egba town. From Sapon, a visitor can easily connect Ake, the seat of the paramount ruler of Egbaland, the Alake, as well as other
places.
You can equally connect, Itoku, Lafenwa, Kuto and Omida, four of the popular markets that have become synonymous with commercial activities in the rocky city. One can also among others link Ijaiye, Ago-Oba, Isale Igbein, Kemta, Idi Aba, FMC, OGTV, Ikija, the home of the popular Olumo Rock, Ikereku, Elega, Saje and Adatan.
But, beyond its centrality and easy connectivity to major quarters in Abeokuta, Daily Sun discovered that Sapon in the early 60’s was a melting  pot for  people, particularly bachelors, who used to throng there to eat “Pekule” (mashed beans), described as delicious. The main character of the food theatre was Madam Janet Odesola, the
famous food vendor, who would for long be remembered for her type of beans, benevolence and advice to bachelors.
Odesola was said to be a beans vendor at a spot in Sapon, with customers, cutting across the social strata patronising her from the four quarters of Egba, namely, Ake, Oko, Gbagura and Owu. Her “Pekule” was said to be sumptuous. She had booming business assisted by several female servers attending to her customers.
It got to a point that Odesola could not meet demands of her customers, even though she cooked a bag of beans daily. She was quoted as always saying: “Mo se bi mo ti mọ,” which literarly translates: “I have acted within my means,” when answering her customers who came late and demanded for beans that was not available.
That was where the slang: “Şe b’o ti mọ, Ẹlẹwa Şapọn” (Cut your coat according to
your size, Sapon’s beans seller), originated. It has since been made popular.
This expression was said to have come about when Odesola could not satisfy the demands of her customers and often told them point blank
that she had acted within her means. She was also said to be fond of advising her customers to eat
according to the amount of money in their pockets; and even when they had more money in their pockets, she always advised them to eat what
their stomachs could contain.
Like a colossus, she dominated the scene and became prosperous until nature caught up with her and could no longer sell the beans as a result of age Odesola’s shop christened “Şe b’o ti
mọ” which had been demolished was almost adjacent the Osile of Oke-Ona’s palace.
The shop like others paved way for the infrastructural development of the area. Unlike what it used to be in the days of yore, Sapon has been transformed with many shops, offices and an overhead bridge.
Chief Anthony Adefulu, 75, a prince of Alake and grandson of Oba Ademola, recalled Odesola’s: “What I know of Abeokuta of those days, particularly the Sapon axis of the town is that there used to be a food vendor at a spot, close to the then Osile of Oke Ona palace, called Iya Elewa Sapon, who sold almost 24 hours a day.
“Her customers caught across sex, both the high and low in the society. Among them were those who could be described as influential, government officials, school children and artisans. I remember very well that whenever you went there, beans and rice were usually available for you.
“By her side was another woman who sold
‘dundu’ (fried yam). Because of the nearness of the park to the palace of Osile, then Oba Adebare, it was easily accessible.
“Sapon lore, (be kind to bachelors), I believe came
about because anytime you wanted to eat, anytime of the day, whether you were a bachelor or not, you had food to buy and eat. If people say that is how it derived its popular name, which still sticks to it till
today, I will not be surprised.
“Bachelors of those days did not bother or have time to prepare food on their own. They were sure that anytime they got to Sapon, they would get something to eat.
“As a prince, I was not allowed to eat outside the
house. Despite this, out of my rascality, I managed with my playmates after jumping school to eat there. It was a great experience.”
After Odesola’s demise the shop was managed by her children for many years. Her female children later took over the business, but none of them could be found to speak on the business.
Adefulu responded: “I know she had female children, who attended a modern school somewhere at the Ibara axis of the town. One of them is Florence, with whom we, used to relate, but I don’t know her whereabout now.
“I doubt if any of the children took after their mother. The impression of many people on food vendors was not encouraging for the
trade to be passed on to the younger generations.
Attempts to locate any of her children, particularly, Florence were futile as they were said to have married outside the state. Chief Taiwo Akanni corroborated Adefrulu’s claim: “I know Florence as one her children, who assisted her in the
business. After completing her secondary commercial school education here in Abeokuta, she got married and since, I have not set
my eyes on her.” 