• Jonathan approved trade off –Sheriff faction • Ex-ruling party didn’t want girls rescued –Govt From Ndubuisi Orji & Magnus Eze, Abuja and Sola Ojo, Kaduna The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday claimed that the swap deal under which another 82 Chibok schoolgirls were released last weekend was actually approved by the immediate past president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. Its deputy National Chairman, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, made the assertion at a press briefing in Abuja. Reacting to a statement by the party’s Caretaker Committee on the swapping of some Boko Haram insurgents with the girls, he said no price was too big for the freedom of the schoolgirls, abducted three years ago, to pay. The caretaker committee led by Senator Ahmed Makarfi had in a statement by its spokesman, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, on Sunday, faulted the release of suspected Boko Haram commanders in exchange for the girls, describing it as an “unusual price.” Ojougboh said he was part of the Federal Government team that negotiated for the release of the Chibok girls in 2014, explaining that the moves that culminated in the release of the girls started during Jonathan’s tenure. According to him, the former President apart from authorising the swap of some Boko Haram detainees with the girls also set up a team to negotiate with the insurgents to secure the release of the girls. He said regrettably, the swap deal was scuttled at the last minute. Ojougboh said: “Let us make it very clear that the effort and the battle for the release of the girls started a long time ago.  Sometimes in May 2014, a consultant of the World Bank visited Nigeria and approached Chief E.K Clark and told him that the Chibok girls were alive and could be rescued. “Chief Clark made contact with the then president Goodluck Jonathan. Arrangements were made to release the Chibok girls sometimes in May 2014. I went for the meeting for the exchange. “Conditions that were set involved the release of the Boko Haram prisoners. When the Boko Haram representatives met us first, they said 10 of their mallams were arrested in Bauchi when they were praying. “When we took the information to the DSS and then Chief of Defence Staff (Alex Badeh), they laughed.  They said those arrested were hardened Boko Haram members. “We took the information to the President. The President said whatever it takes to release the Chibok girls, any swap that these people demand, he approved it.” Ojoughoh added after Jonathan left office in 2015, the negotiations continued with Switzerland Embassy and the International Red Cross playing key roles: “We are very happy that the 82 girls have been released. We are also concerned about the remaining girls. We urge the Federal Government to continue this process of negotiations and do whatever it takes for the release of the remaining girls.” Ojougboh urged the public to disregard the comments by the PDP caretaker committee on the swap, noting that the committee did not have the authority to speak for the party on any issue. Also yesterday, the Federal Government, accused the Markafi faction of the PDP of being patently insensitive to human life, describing a statement credited to it flaying the process that led to the release of the 82 Chibok schoolgirls as indecent, inhuman and ill-timed. It said this was not time for any individual or organisation to seek to deride the achievement recorded with the release of the highest number of the abducted girls in the name of politics. This was just as the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), asked the Buhari administration to do everything within its limit to secure the release of the remaining Chibok schoolgirls in captivity, saying that no demand was too much for their freedom. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in a statement in Abuja said Markafi’s party, whose incompetence and cluelessness precipitated the Chibok girls crisis in the first instance, was not wishing and praying for it to end with the safe return of the abducted girls. He said although a lot of factors would come to play for a nation to decide on whether or not to engage in prisoner/hostage swap, but stated that none of the reasons outweighed the sanctity of life and the considerations for the emotional trauma of the loved ones of those involved. He queried: ‘’Will the PDP rather have the girls stay in perpetual captivity, just to prove a ludicrous point? Didn’t superpower United States engage in negotiations with the Taliban that led to the exchange of five Taliban fighters for US Army Sgt Bowe Bergdahl in 2014? “Didn’t Israel release 1,027 Palestinian prisoners in exchange for one Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, in 2011?” He maintained that it was the then PDP-controlled Federal Government’s disregard for human life that led to loss of critical time for their rescue even before they acknowledged the abduction.  NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, agreed that the victory over Boko Haram cannot be complete without rescuing the remaining missing girls. “We therefore, call on the government, especially Mr. President to step up the process of the rescue of the remaining girls in captivity. No demand can be said to be too much for their freedom,” he stated. The League of Upcoming Political Parties (LUPP), also described the statement credited to Makarfi’s faction of PDP as “shocking from a confused group.” A statement by its national coordinator, Dr. Musa Ahmadu, in Kaduna yesterday said, “is more shocking that the statement was coming from the faction led by a man who has been the executive governor and chief security officer of a state for eight years and who is widely acclaimed to have brought relative peace to his state of Kaduna during his tenure. “The release of the 82 girls, the largest number so far, rather than sadden the parents of those that are yet to return, has followed a similar pattern by reigniting the hope of the parents of those yet to see their children that it remains a matter of time for them to be equally lucky. “The release has not only restored hope in the whole of Chibok, Borno State and Nigeria but globally, that not only are these girls alive and well but with the application of efficient strategies, the remaining girls would be found and rescued.”