… As NEMA distributes relieves materials From: Olanrewaju Lawal , Birnin-Kebbi Fifty- five-year-old Habi Shuaib, a survivor of the rainstorm that occurred in Maiyama Local Government Area of  Kebbi State last week, has explained how she and her 27-year-old daughter, Zainab, narrowly escaped death with, saying it was with sheer hand of God. Shuaib, a housewife in Maiyama, and her daughter, were among 700 residents of the town rendered homeless by the rainstorm. Narrating her experience to Daily Sun, on Wednesday, in Birnin-Kebbi after she received  relief materials from National Emergency Materials Agency(NEMA), Abuja, Shuaib, was seen still wriggling in pains with wounds sustained in her body. According to her,  “My husband is a business man and he had gone on a business trip when incident happened. At midnight, the rainstorm started and removed our roofs at about 4:00a.m. I was sleeping in my room with my daughter when the whole thing started. Suddenly, we saw ourselves in total darkness. ” As we struggled to escape,  woods fell on but, we managed to crawl out. After our narrow escape, I discovered that my daughter had lost three teeth because the woods hit her cheek and there were wounds all over our body. It was just God that safe us.” She added that a lawmaker in the state House of Assembly from the local government, Hon. Abdulwasiu Andarai, gave her N20, 000 while Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu gave her N10, 000 for her medical treatment and her daughter when he (Governor Bagudu) visited all the victims in the hospital. Both Abdullahi Labo, father of 11 children and Usman Adamu Lima, father of fou, after they had received their relief materials from NEMA told Daily Sun that all their four bedrooms houses were turned to rubbles before their very eyes as they escaped death. Labo said his children now live with his relatives while he and his two wives had are now refuges in a primary school in the community. Similarly, Lima, who had four children and a wife, said his family now live in his father’s house while he alone stay in a primary school.  They told Daily Sun that state government gave them N10,000 each at the hospital. While distributing the relief materials, Director General of NEMA, Engr. Mustapha Yunusa, promised the victims that Federal government would assist the victims to reduce the lost burden and psychology effects on their lives. Yunsa, who hand over 300 mattresses, ceiling, irons sheets, bags of rice,nails,blankets and others to the victims, said the agency was fully prepared for any emergency in the country.. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, in his remarks, promised that his administration would also reach out to the victims of the rainstorms in the state.