“Dear Prof. I am grateful to God for answering my prayer. After using the oil you gave me, I passed out a strong stone while excreting. This is in addition to my former testimony. I’m completely healed and may God bless you. Everyone is surprised how healthy I am now. Thank God for your life sir. My mother is very happy for the freedom too.…” Mr. Joseph 08102274735 “The woman that took my husband away from me after 16 years of marriage and held him with all forms of occult powers that made him forgot me and my five children and consequently made this world hell for me, has finally confessed. My husband loved his family so much and fought for our well being until he met this woman in a beer parlor and she hypnotized him. My husband went and started living with her in her two room apartment and abandoned us for over seven years. There is no amount of prayer I did not offer, many men and women of God prayed and prayed…at a point, he came home and after two three hours  she will revive her charms and with speed, my husband jumped out of the house even if he was eating, he abandoned it and left. This continued and he built a house for her and started training her children. I wept till God answered my prayer through the use of your oil. I ordered two bottles as you directed and used it with the Bible portions you gave me…We were all surprised to notice that my husband came back and started weeping and confessed that he thought he was with us all these years. He had a strange encounter in his dream with the Lord as the woman also had the same experience that made her almost ran mad and started confessing of all she did to my husband…In fact, as he realized himself he remembered his last son and started crying and shouting. The truth of the matter is that the woman is suffering from…right now and my husband has reunited with us. We love him and he loves us too, may the good Lord continue to uplift you for this great freedom we have enjoyed… (Names and contact withheld). You are humbly implored here not to negate this because many people have perished as a result of deep ignorance initiated by the prince of darkness. Do remember that the Bible says, “My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge…” Hosea 4:6. Therefore be wise and watchful. God said, “I form the light, and create darkness; I make peace, and create evil; I the Lord do all these things” Isa.45:7. You cannot question Him. Two months ago, i received a call from a man who consequently informed me that he was a very rich man and was into import and export business for a long time and had all that life has to offer. According to him, “Prof, your articles that I have read about four times now has truly opened my eyes and has made me know what exactly is wrong with me. My problem started on the 30th of Sept. 2002 when I was returning from my business trip in Europe. I met a young lady who approached me and demanded for a financial help, I gave her N3000 for her transport as I was led. She took the money with her left hand and appreciated me and went her way”. The young man continued, “Starting from that day, my problems began. My containers were ceased, everything started working against me. I took note of the money, and the date it all started.  Beginning from that day, till today that I am talking to you, I have sold everything I had. What is remaining for me now is to sell myself. I must borrow money to eat and to make calls. I am dead my brother please help me. Someone is holding my 10 million for eleven years now. He has the money to pay me but keeps turning me about. Oga Prof, please help me…” I patiently listened to him and asked him to arrange himself to pick up my anointing oil. After much argument, he did. I instructed him on how to do the prayer. He patiently followed my instructions and thereafter, called and informed me that the man owing him for eleven years called him.  Now hear our conversation, “…I am most grateful to God for your life. I have not finished the spiritual assignment you gave to me before the man called me. The night I used your oil, he called me the following morning and informed me that he was beaten and flogged by an angel in his dream for not paying me and that further delay to this will lead to his death. He said to me that all his body was paining him (as he was talking to me) as a result of the beating.  He has paid me my money and I shall start a new life with this money now…” God has a way of working in the life of many people. The man who shared his testimony on how the angel of God flogged his debtor, who consequently paid him after that experience, has started a new life to the glory of God. The reason for this piece of information is to authenticate the function of prayer and how same is used by God to do great things. For more information get your copy of my book, “How to Pass a Decree and Receive it within 20 days.” Very soon, I shall begin to write on prayers and how same is used by God to destroy the forces of darkness in the world of man. There is a serious ongoing manipulation in economic arena, which has destabilized so many people; making the great to feed from hand to mouth. This is so designed to make many suffer. The Bible says, “Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth” 3rd John 2. I wish to emphasize here that it is the will of God for his people to be blessed. At the same time, I do not preach prosperity before repentance because one must receive the BLESSER before receiving his BLESSINGS. Today, the topsy-turvy of truth with regard to God’s blessings is preached daily. As a result, people no longer attach importance to SALVATION messages; their emphasis is on material blessings without putting accepting Christ as Lord and personal Saviour into consideration. This is how the truth of the Gospel is upturned. We must do something about it. It is as a result of this that Churches are so many which in turn attracts much multitude; yet majority of people attending Churches are not saved. According to Paul, “Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to naught. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory…. 1 Cor. 2:6-7. To expose the hidden wisdom of God is the proper reason for which some star beings are on earth. However, they have been misunderstood by many in view of our stereotyped credo that has continued to dwindle cum decrease the spiritual consciousness of man. To understand the hidden wisdom, a lot of outer creed must be adjusted to suit the inner purpose of Christ mission on earth. Though he that knows and practices the truth is a lonely man and must be blasphemed too. The fact is that we have misunderstood ourselves in the light of spiritual spectrum of reality. We have grossly applied some vain philosophies of life that have greatly assisted mankind in the acceleration of his predicament. Ignorance is responsible! We must realize that we are one with HIM the internally eternal God and he separates ignorance from knowledge at all time and in due time. Some the hidden wisdom of God is buried in the hidden but spiritually fertilized soil of nature culminating in the spiritual dimension of human physiology. I must say here that man is a unit of a higher energy and therefore generates hidden energies within him that are geared towards consolidation of his spiritual and physical being. It is consequent upon this that various aspects of his bodies vibrate in accordance with the forces of light to pass or emit information to the gross material body. This is the hidden wisdom imbedded in the unit of the super-conscious being-man in order to guide him in the right path. It is unfortunate that many people negate this and pass on in life in conspicuous penury, excruciating and deplorable conditions. 