From: Taiwo Oluwadare, Ibadan As a way of catching them young and to have more female surveyors in the country, the Women in Survey, on Wednesday, tasked students in Iseyin, Oyo State, on relevance of surveying in nation building and career goals to make them self- reliant and promote national economy. Addressing the students drawn from Iseyin Baptist High School, Iseyin Muslim Grammar school and the host school, Iseyin District Grammar School, the South West coordinator of the organisation, Dr. (Mrs) Adenike Durojaiye said: “As a Surveyor, you have vast opportunities. You can map the world’s terrain, explore new oil sources, investigate crime scenes and take charge as a CEO. You can also appear in court as an expert witness, run a business and excel with computers and other high-tech equipment”. She added that, aspiring students must be science students and must have passed O’Level exams, studied the course in tertiary institutions and passed a professional examination saying, “a trained surveyor can end up working in a construction company, oil company and as a teacher”. Corroborating her, the state coordinator of the organization, Surveyor Toyin Towotade said youth is the stage of constructing the self concept which is influenced by variables such as peers, lifestyles, gender and culture saying it is necessary for the students to make choice that will affect their future and see their present life as an opportunity to make career choice. While enlightening the students on relevance of surveying, Towotade said: “surveying is the technique, profession and science of determining the terrestrial or three dimensional position of points and angles between them; which is often used to establish land maps and boundaries for ownership, location; like building corners or surface location of subsurface featurs as required by the government or individual”. Also, the National Assistant Secretary of the organization, Surveyor Elizabeth Olayiwola said the women were in Iseyin to enlighten the students on their career path especially female to let them know that the profession is not only for men. According to her, the workshop is meant to enlighten the students on how to become a surveyor by understanding certain prerequisites before they can become an accomplished Surveyor. She said therefore that the students will decide and make a lifetime choice after the workshop to make a positive impact and make it better for them as they make career choice at early stage of their lives. While commending the women for the initiative, the principal of Iseyin District Grammar School, Mrs. Felicia Siyanbola said the workshop will inspire more students especially female folks to aspire to become a surveyor in the future. She encourage the women to put in mind to take care of their home front just as they aspire to develop their career path as a way of becoming a better wife and mothers in a better society.