The next edition of the grand music concert, Glo Mega Music Nationwide Tour, organised by the Data Grandmasters, Globacom, is slated for Calabar, Cross River State tomorrow, Saturday May 13, 2017.
The show promises to be a talk-of-the-town as an array of A-list artistes has been lined up to thrill the audience. But then, it was the turn of Aba, Abia State last Saturday, as foremost indigenous language rapper, Phyno, brought his trademark charm to the commercial city.
The highly creative rapper started off his impressive career in the Enyimba city, and was to later outgrow his nest and become a shining ambassador of Aba in other parts of the country. His arrival on stage at the Aba edition of the show simply sent the crowd wild, confirming that he remained popular with his teeming fans at his home base.
Phyno was at home as he unleashed his strings of hits on the appreciative crowd for more than an hour. The highpoint of his performance was the rendition of Fada Fada, a very successful collaborative work between him and Olamide.
The collabo was a suitable launch pad for Olamide to take the concert to unbelievable heights. The night proved that the act popularly called Baddo is just at home in the East, as he is in the South West, most especially Lagos, as the audience sang every line of his songs. Olamide was so appreciative of the ecstatic crowd that he prostrated, thanking them for their love.
Anchored by the beautiful duo of Uche Jombo and Juliet Ibrahim, the show burst through yet another level of excitement with the coming on stage of Flavour, who deployed his stage presence magically, giving the impression that three mega stars were performing at the same time on the same stage.
At some point, Flavour invited Nollywood icon, Kanayo O. Kanayo, on stage. The lead character in the hilarious drama series, Professor Johnbull, sponsored by Globacom, climbed the stage to the excitement of the audience. Together they rendered the theme song of the programme, and then brought the show to a deserving end.
Other artistes that had earlier entertained the audience include the Omawumi and Runtown. DJ XGee was also on hand to dish out club bangers for the enjoyment of the audience.
Globacom also created a platform for up and coming artistes to showcase their talents and bond with the Aba audience. The company also showcased the winners of the #GlosingAba60secs online singing competition. There was equally a dance competition, won by a teenager, Nancy Chizobam of Oxford International School, Aba.