From Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, would, today, be conferred with the  “Global Human Settlements Outstanding Contribution Award” by the Sustainable Cities and Human Settlements Awards (SCAHSA). Wike is also expected to deliver an address on key developmental issues at the event scheduled to take place at the United Nations Headquarters, New York City, in the United States of America. The event is part of activities to celebrate the World Cities Day 2017, the 12th Global Forum on Human Settlements and Sustainable Cities and Human Settlements Awards Ceremony (GFHS XII). According to the organisers,  GFHS – XII is committed to “creating a global platform for high-level dialogues, sharing advanced standards, technology and success experience, enhancing capacity-building, fostering partnership and facilitating effective actions. The theme of  GFHS – XII is: “Effectively planning and managing urban spatial fevelopment to implement 2030 agenda for sustainable development and new urban agenda.” The GFHS–XII is jointly organised by the Permanent Mission of the Gambia to the UN, the Permanent Observer Mission of the African Union to the UN (AU), the Global Forum on Human Settlements (GFHS), the United Nations Environment Programme (UN Environment), the University Peace Federation (UPF), the World Association of Non-Governmental Organisations (WANGO) and  the Better City Institute (BCI). The organisers recognised Wike for his commitment and contribution to sustainable cities in the state. The governor has developed  infrastructure in settlements in different parts of the state, ensuring that people have access to basic amenities. He was also recognised  for constructing the Iriebe Medium Housing Estate, Rivers Quarters at the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Pathfinder, quarters for Junior Staff of the Department of State Service (DSS) and facilitating the improved investment in housing by private investors. He  received further commendations for investing in land reclamation , sand filling in Asari-Toru, Degema, Akuku-Toru and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas. The organisers believed that the land reclamation projects would enhance sustainable homes for the people.