My attention has just been drawn to the back-page column of The Sun Newspaper of Sunday, September 24, 2017, written by Mrs Funke Egbemode, a media guru with the above title. Ordinarily, I would not have commented on the issue, but I have decided to say one or two things on the matter which the respected President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors raised in the write-up. Contrary to the impression created in the write-up about resident doctors, they are trainees and constitute a section of the workforce within the tertiary health system in Nigeria. There are other professional health workers that also provide service; nurses/midwives, pharmacists, physiotherapists, record officers including cleaners are all critical to a functional health system. Government must be seen to offer a balanced and fair deal with each of these professional groups especially in an already polarised environment. While I agree that it is the fundamental right of workers to go on strike, the rules of engagement and disengagement must be adhered to. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) principles concerning the right to strike listed health as essential service. The code also permitted hiring of workers to replace strikers. It is also on record that no worker on strike is paid anywhere in the world apart from Nigeria. However, it must be stated that our law prescribes no work no pay. One issue raised by Mrs Egbemode in her write up is the need for the government at all levels to pay special attention to teachers and doctors’ welfare. I can say it boldly that doctors and other health workers in Nigeria enjoy salary and allowances, far above that of other civil servants. There are series of incentives and perks that have been incorporated in their allowances, which have made them among the highest paid public servants in the country. They earn call duty, shift duty, teaching and uniform allowances among others and series of other perks which are available to those in the medical and health profession. Yes, it may be argued that everyone in Nigeria deserves  bigger paycheck, this is something that requires a thoughtful process with clear and frank decision. It is simplistic to say the least, that government would say “I approve” to any labour demand, without fact-checking the financial implications. Federal Ministry of Health will require concurrence of other critical agencies of government to make realistic decision on any demand. Salaries and Wages Commission as a matter of good judgement, must concur to any negotiation within the law of the nation, otherwise, backlash of any stampeded decision could spell unimaginable doom to the country. I agree that there are areas where government could still improve the lot of medical doctors and other health related professionals. The fact remains however, that the country is trying to find its feet once again after years of wastages. It is no longer news that our highly revered leader came into power at a critical point in Nigerian history when all sectors of economy including health, education, security and host of others were in an unbelievable shape. President Muhammadu Buhari started by re-shaping our orientation and policy to minimise leakages and wastages within our system. No sector could claim to be an island within this struggle of finding our pathway to success. We all need to make hard sacrifices including those in office. The era of using old argument of politicians riding expensive cars, building luxury houses and appropriating fat perks is over! Any argument now should be based on current realities.  The truth must be told that many of the agreements were entered into as far back as 2010, at a time when a barrel of crude oil was sold at above 100 USD.  Some of these agreements however clearly merit critical review. President Buhari came into power in 2015 with a clear vision for the health sector among others to right the wrongs of the past. The APC manifesto clearly states that government will provide quality health care to Nigerians. The government started with re-prioritising the health sector by letting Nigerians know that about 80 percent of Nigerians only need basic health care while less than 15 percent needs tertiary healthcare. This is why he personally launched the Primary Healthcare Revitalisation Programme at Kuchigoro, a suburb in Abuja. Government with support of International Agencies and Development Partners has invested on this through renovation, provision of drugs and healthcare workers at these primary healthcare centres (PHCs) in the country. World Bank has revitalised close to 1400 PHCs, the European Union is assisting Nigeria to handle another 774 of such PHCs, MNCH-2 project is doing another 900 PHCs and in 2017 and 2018 budget provisions, will revitalise up to 500 PHCs all to be spread across the country.. The Federal Ministry of Health has continuously engaged the Nigerian Governors Forum to prioritise health since it is on the concurrent list. Many state governments have bought this laudable idea and they are investing in PHCs revitalisation across their local governments. Although one can argue that FGN is not supposed to focus on this, common-sense dictates that one cannot be fantasicing about building the roof of a house when the foundation has not been thought about. We are also partnering with private sector players such as Sterling Bank and General Electric to provide modern equipment and other necessary facilities to make the PHC sustainable and functional. The Buhari government initiated a short-term programme targeting vulnerable population by offering free medical and surgical treatment all over the country devoid of political, ethnic, religious and any other affiliations. It is in the public space that Nigerians benefitted immensely from this initiative funded by FGN and some interested private organisations. This year, FGN is embarking on creating awareness for cancer prevention and offering opportunity for Nigerians to get screened for common cancers such as breast and cervical cancer for women and prostate cancers. Furthermore, Buhari Administration has invested close to N4.5 billion in addressing several health challenges in North-East of Nigeria including malnutrition, immunization, surveillance etc. The author advised government to build world class hospitals with the right equipment to take care of the health needs of Nigerians. This should be the goal of every government and we are desirous of doing that. It is important to state that building alone would not make a hospital, other necessary infrastructure such as right equipment and other consumable items are necessary ingredients for a functional hospital. This year, government is partnering with Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority to upgrade eight tertiary health institutions, (one in each geo-political zone) to address three common non-communicable diseases (cancer, cardiovascular and renal problems) that make Nigerians seek treatment abroad.  We have reached an advanced stage on this and implementation will commence in earnest. It is our hope that this will reverse medical tourism and attendant wastage of over $1 billion. My appeal is that we should not attempt to trivialise operations of government by creating impression that government pronouncement on any demand amounts to “fraud”. Government never promised that doctors will get alert. Institutions were to get alert. The process of getting individual alert on phone takes several steps in government unlike in a private setting where account officer doubles as Ministry of Finance, Salaries and Wages Commission, Accountant General Office, Budget Office and Account Section of each tertiary hospital. It is common knowledge that this latency period of actions between agencies will cause delay BUT certainly not a FRAUD. Lastly, as a servant with an open door, I will continue to listen and pay attention to constructive criticisms from men and women of the media profession that I regard as partners in progress. We will plead for fair hearing and balanced reporting on issues that concern any sector in Nigeria including Federal Ministry of Health. We are open and willing to learn other perspectives to make our country great. I appeal to all healthcare workers to continue to support the vision of President Buhari in making our health system resilient, functional and sustainable. It is a legacy that we must strive to bequeath to our nation. ►Professor Isaac Adewole is the Minister of Health.   e-mail: hmh@health.govy.ng/ifadewole@yahoo.co.uk