Female genital mutilation, evil –Lagos gov’s wife By  Moshood Adebayo Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode and his counterparts from Akwa Ibom, Udom Emmanuel; Edo, Godwin Obaseki; Bayelsa; Seriaki Dickson and Ekiti, Ayodele Fayose, have commended the sterling contributions of women to the society. They averred that women’s role in nation-building cannot be over-emphasized. The governors, who spoke at the opening ceremony of the 17th National Women Conference, organised by the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO), held at the Eko Hotel and Suites, with the theme: ‘She Creates, She Transforms,’ took turns to celebrate the doggedness, dexterity and creativity of women and their notable contributions towards building a better society. In his goodwill message, governor Ambode saluted the resilience of women in their different spheres, and noted that women are naturally gifted with skills and talents that make positive difference and impact on their generation. “Our women are constantly creative; making something out of nothing. Creativity has become very essential to succeed in today’s world because we face new challenges everyday – at home and at work. As the woman creates and transforms, she positively impacts the family, the workplace and the nation “With the female population in our country today, it is clear that our women have the capacity to positively affect the Nigerian economy and are already doing so. He expressed optimism that the conference, aside celebrating the resilient and dynamic nature of women under diverse situations, would go a long way to unleash the creative and transformative energies of more women. Governor Ambode restated his administration’s commitment to supporting female entrepreneurs, and also, disclosed that as at September 2017, at least 2,613 female entrepreneurs who run medium and small scale businesses have been funded through the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund to the tune of N2.1bn, and assured that more would be given before the end of the year. On his part, governor Emmanuel, who was guest of honour commended COWLSO Chairman and Ambode’s wife, Bolanle, for sustaining and improving the COWLSO conference which started 17 years ago. Speaking on the theme of this year’s conference, Emmanuel charged women to live their lives by creating and transforming people and things around them, without minding the shortcomings. Also, governor Dickson of Bayelsa State said the role of women in transforming lives cannot be under-estimated, and added that it is imperato appreciate and celebratewomen to always. Dickson and his counterpart in Edo, Obaseki commended Lagos state for the initiative, and hoped they would replicate same in their states. Governor Fayose said life without women would be full of crises and that it was important for women to be given opportunity to be in the drivers’ seat in the country. Meanwhile, wife of the Vice President, Dolapo Osinbajo and Mrs. Ambode have charged Nigerian women to rise against rape and other abuses that tend to dimish and ridicule womanhood. The duo spoke at the opening ceremony of the conference. The vice president’s wife particularly urged the womenfolk to draw inspiration from women who have performed creditably well in their chosen profession, and endeavour to leave their footprints on the sands of time, just as she said that women must speak up against rape and all forms of abuse against women and children. On her part, Mrs. Ambode said: “Female genital mutilation is evil, it is wicked, it is anti-social and unjustifiable. In fact, it is a crime against women. We must devote time for enlightenment and awareness especially among uneducated mothers. We must stand together against it, until the practice is totally eradicated in our country.” and the world.” In her welcome address, Mrs. Ambode particularly charged women to speak up against the barbaric practice of female genital mutilation, saying that the campaign must start from the home front, churches, mosques, offices and the communities. “Female genital mutilation is evil, it is wicked, it is anti-social and unjustifiable. Infact, it is a crime against women. We must devote time for enlightenment and awareness especially among uneducated mothers. We must stand together against it, until the practice is totally eradicated in our country and the world”. She also urged woman to resist the temptation of pursuing economic empowerment at the expense of taking good care and paying attention to their children, stressing that children who do not enjoy parental care, easily grow to become potentially dangerous youths and threatening the peace of the society. “The rising trend of leaving the girl-child entirely in the care of housemaids, neighbours or strangers in pursuit of income or for flimsy reasons, should be discouraged. “We must desist from and discourage child-labour, child-abuse and fight child trafficking with all our strength. We owe it a duty to give good parenting to our children and indeed all other children put in our care. We must give them hope and allow them see the positive side of life, as a way of bringing back good morals and societal stability,” Mrs Ambode said. In her keynote address, the wife of the Vice President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo urged women to work hard to transform their children and wards into greatness and create a safe and secured society by inculcating the right virtues in their children. She particularly urged the womenfolk to draw inspiration from women who had performed creditably well in their chosen profession, and endeavor to leave their footprints on the sands of time, just as she said that women must speak up against rape and all forms of abuse against women and children, and also speak in defence of the downtrodden and less-privileged in the society. Highlight of the event was the presentation of the Inspirational Woman Award to the first female mechanic in Nigeria, Mrs. Sandra Aguebor by Mrs. Osinbajo and the unveiling and beautiful rendition of the COWLSO anthem. “The rising trend of leaving the girl-child entirely in the care of housemaids, neighbours or strangers in pursuit of income or for flimsy reasons, should be discouraged. “We must desist from and discourage child-labour, child-abuse and fight child trafficking with all our strength. We owe it a duty to give good parenting to our children and indeed all other children put in our care. We must give them hope and allow them see the positive side of life, as a way of bringing back good morals and societal stability,” She also urged woman to resist the temptation of pursuing economic empowerment at the expense of taking good care and paying attention to their children, stressing that children who do not enjoy parental care, easily grow to become potentially dangerous youths and threatening the peace of the society. Meanwhile, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, his counterparts from Akwa Ibom, Udom Emmanuel; Edo, Godwin Obaseki; Bayelsa; Seriaki Dickson and Ekiti, Ayodele Fayose  took turns to celebrate the doggedness, dexterity and creativity of the Nigerian women.