From Tony John, Port Harcourt Over 500 All Progressives Congress (APC) members from Wards 13 and 14 of Emohua Local Government Area of Rivers State have defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This was just as the leadership of Emohua Local Government Area PDP formally endorsed  Governor Nyesom Wike for a second term. They saidhis developmental projects had transformed the state. Speaking  at the defection ceremony, Wike’s Chief of Staff, Chukwuemeka Woke, said the action of the APC decampees signalled  the death of the party in Emohua Local Government Area.  Woke said the defection of APC members to the PDP would continue weekly till 2019, because Rivers people had experienced  quality leadership under Governor Wike. He said: “They are saying that come 2019, there will be no APC in Rivers State. The Federal Government has failed and they have seen PDP government working here in the State. “Why would they continue to follow APC that has failed to deliver.  This exercise  will continue almost every week. The entire state will collapse  into PDP.” He described APC as  a sham that rode to power on the altar of propaganda, without any agenda for governance. Former Chairman of the Governing Council of Federal Polytechnic, Kaduna, Chief Sergeant Awuse commended the APC members  for abandoning a sinking ship to join a performing  political party in the State. He urged Emohua people to work with other Rivers people to ensure that Governor Wike wins a second term. Former  State Commissioner of Transport, Chief Glory Emeh, urged the decampees  to remain steadfast as they contribute  their quota to the re-election  of Governor Wike. Leader of the APC in Ward 13 and 14,  Stephen Amadi, said they resolved to move to PDP because  of the superlative performance of the governor. Receiving the decampees, PDP chieftain, Prince Paul Wonodi, said the defectors  would enjoy equal opportunities  with existing PDP members. He commended  the former APC members for the courage to retrace their  steps in the interest of the development of the State.