•My team and I have delivered excellence –Gov From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka and David Onwuchekwa, Nnewi Awka, the Anambra State capital stood still yesterday as Governor Willie Obiano, the candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA)  flagged off his re-election campaign at the Alex Ekwueme Square . He told crowd that the state would see more development in his second term and promised that he would build an airport. He urged voters to carry out the wish of the late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu by voting for APGA. Obiano said he brought development to the state by ensuring that every community got N20 million to carry out any project of their choice and promised that the funds would be increased to N50 million next year. He said: “We gave each community N20 million for any project of their choice and any community that uses up the funds should come for another N20 million. Next year, we will begin to give N50 million to different communities. “What we are going to do in the next four years in agriculture will be greater that what we have already done. Now, we are more than self sufficient in rice production and we are progressing in the production of maize, cassava and yam. Next year, we are going to provide funds to farmers to start breeding our own cattle, goat, chicken and other livestock. “The election is just 48 days from today and we have only two choices; to consolidate on the rapid growth we have made so far, or take a step backwards into dark days of lawlessness and shame. All over the world, excellence does not happen by chance; it is usually a direct result of clear vision, smart decisions and bold resolve to rise above average. We plead that we be given another chance to turn excellence into a habit.  I represent dignity in labour and reward for hard work “I welcome those who will contest the election with me but I must remind them all that this state belongs to all of us. Elections will come and go but Anambra will remain. We must refuse every temptation to make this election a do or die affair and turn our dear state into a war zone. We have the responsibility to preserve the peace that we have worked very hard to bring to Anambra state today; I reach out my hands in fellowship to you and urge you to help keep Anambra state safe and peaceful.” Some of the personalities who were present were former Central Bank Governor, Prof  Chukwuma Soludo ; the Director General of the Campaign Organization, Chief Victor Umeh; former deputy governor of the state, Virgy Etiaba; former governorship candidate in Abia State, Dr. Alex Otti; former minister of Information, Labramn Maku and Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rita Maduagwu.