Those who were around during Sir Shina Peters’ heyday knew what to expect on the October 1 night when the maiden edition of the Nigerian Beer Festival ended and the veteran Afro juju maestro took the stage. With SPP as he is fondly called, it is nothing but heart-pumping energy and excitement. That way, he gave a befitting climax to the first edition of Nigeria’s beer-fest at the Eko Atlantic City Waterfront, Victoria Island. The festival––which started on September 25––was organised by On and One (001) Event Limited and supported by the Lagos State government. It witnessed a huge turnout of people who were treated to nights of entertainment and arrays of products from Nigerian Breweries, Guinness and Campari, among others. Tuface, Sir Shina Peters, and comedians treated the mixed audience to great performances. Tuface’s performance excited both to foreigners and Nigerians, some of whom could not help but dance to the rhythms of his music. However, the high point of the festival was the adrenaline performance by Sir Shina Peter. The venue was agog as he reeled out hit tracks from his old album and filled the air with danceable tunes. Some foreign nationals showed their excitement by nodding their heads. Kelvin Lee, a Chinese, confessed: “I am very much excited and love Nigerian music, though l don’t understand Yoruba, l am carried away by Shina’s performance.” The festival provided an atmosphere to showcase fashion, lifestyle and culture, as existing and potential consumers savoured various beer brands in the country. The event ended with a display of fireworks to the admiration of participants who affirmed that the Nigeria Beer Festival is worthwhile and should be sustained. According to Akinola Oluwaleimu, General Manager of On and One Limited, the festival was indeed a carnival of entertainment, sales, tourism and a gathering of the largest community of beer consumers from across the country. The one-week event, he affirmed, added economic value to brands and the nation’s economy.