Twenty-two entrepreneurs received grants of N300,000 each to support their businesses when the train of the ongoing Goldberg empowerment initiative, Isedowo, stopped in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, at the weekend.
The artisans were among the 100 participants Goldberg plans to support with N300,000 through Isedowo across Southwest Nigeria.
One of the beneficiaries, Eniola Awe, a fashion designer, who expressed joy during the cheque presentation ceremony, said: “l am highly delighted to be among the beneficiaries. I commend Goldberg for supporting my dreams of becoming a successful entrepreneur. I urge consumers to make Goldberg the preferred choice in Ekiti and the whole of the Southwest.”
Also, Kayode Omoyeba, a carpenter, remarked: “l commend Goldberg and Nigerian Breweries for the empowerment scheme, which will go a long way in enhancing my business. I have been thinking of how to buy work tools for a while and Goldberg has relieved me of that burden. I am now a happy man and this initiative is worth emulating.”
Other artisans, including motor mechanics, tailors, caterers, carpenters, makeup artists, electricians, among others, also commended Goldberg for assisting them with funds to boost their businesses.
Commenting on Isedowo, the Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager and Stout brands, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr. Emmanuel Agu, said: “Goldberg would, through the scheme, extend its affinity with the people of the Southwest beyond culture and tradition to entrepreneurship.” That way, he added: “it would have positioned itself as an empowerment platform that shares the aspirations of the people.”
To benefit from the initiative, interested participants are expected to showcase their business ideas and how they impact the society.
The initiative, which was launched last month by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II, in his palace, has received wide commendation from prominent monarchs in the Southwest.
Known for its leading role in promoting culture and tradition, Goldberg, through Isedowo, has deepened its connection with the people of the Southwest by supporting their economic aspirations.
The scheme, which has so far supported artisans in Osun and Ekiti states, will also activate in other Southwestern states in the coming weeks.