The people of Ekeremor local government area in Bayelsa State jubilated last Saturday, when Governor Seriake Dickson drove on the Angalabiri/Aleibiri section of the ongoing Bayelsa West senatorial road, from Sagbama to Ekeremor. The excitement was against the backdrop of the governor’s promise that the road project, which has been ongoing for over 40 years, will be completed soon. Dickson, who was accompanied by his deputy, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John Jonah (retd), former deputy governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Muhktar Shagari, and other top government officials, made a brief stop-over at Angalabiri, Ofoni and Ayamasa communities, where he noted that his administration has fulfilled the promise made to them during the governorship campaigns. “They don’t know what we go through to bring about development in this our difficult environment. I had to invite my good friend, Alhaji Shagari, to accompany me so that he can see for himself how much this area is in need of development. “Most importantly, they don’t know what we go through, to bring about some semblance of development and so many more of our leaders will be invited to go round our state. Let them go into the creeks and see the conditions under which we live.” The governor, who described the project as strategic to the socio-economic development of the state and said he is proud that his administration has achieved 60 per cent completion of the road, which had been on the drawing board, over the last four decades. According to him, the long neglect of the federal road, which was being handled by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), forced the state government to take over the project, to fast-track the development of the area. Dickson also assured the people that the road would get to Ekeremor, by the end of next year and expressed gratitude to the chiefs and people of the area for supporting his administration and voting the Peoples Democratic Party in the last elections, which, he said, has brought them dividends of democracy. The governor also paid a courtesy visit on the Alei of Aleibiri, Chief Simon Ebebi, where Chief Suru Oyarede, who spoke on behalf of the paramount ruler, expressed appreciation to the governor for his people-oriented projects.  The paramount ruler also commended the state government for its commitment to the construction of the senatorial road, which he noted would link many communities in the hinterland.  The over 100 kilometres Sagbama to Ekeremor road project awarded to both Dantata-Sawoe and Setraco at a cost of N30 billion is expected to be completed in December 2018. 