…..as Alafin lauds his courage Former Governor of the old Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, has said that Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State was eminently qualified to contest the 2019 presidential election, just as  the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, has also praised courage of Governor Fayose as a strong opposition putting the federal government on its toes.
They both spoke on separate occasions in Ondo Town and Ado-Ekiti at the weekend.
In a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Idowu Adelusi, on Sunday, Balarabe Musa spoke on the sideline of the wedding of a daughter of former Ondo State Governor, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, in Ondo Town, while Oba Adeyemi spoke in Ado-Ekiti during the 5th convocation of the Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD).
The Kaduna State Governor said, “it is the right of every Nigerian to aspire for the office of the President of Nigeria. Anybody from any section of the country who has met the constitutional requirements can vie for the presidency. There should be no restriction because the country is in the need of a right leader.
“Whoever that will emerge will be president of Nigeria, and not president of a section. Fayose is exercising his right,  it is wrong for anybody to vilify him for declaring his ambition. The man is bold, courageous and has put the Buhari government on its toes. Anybody having interest should come out so that we can compare,” he said.
On the clamour for restructuring, Musa noted that the agitation had heightens because of insecurity, poverty, hunger and inequality in the county.
Speaking in Ado-Ekiti, Oba Adeyemi lauded Governor Fayose for his pedigree and landmark achievements in the state.
“Fayose is bold, fearless, he has put Buhari government on its toes. All efforts to silence him with Federal Government agencies has not shut his mouth. Opposition is an ingredient of a virile democracy, the FG should be tolerant of opposition.
“Even where others tactically withdrew to their shells,  Fayose became the lone voice. I salute him. Okunrin takuntakun. If you drive through the state capital you are likely to miss your way because of the legacy projects that have changed the face of the town. Seeing is believing,  it is a reality. I congratulate the governor,” the eminent monarch said.
Recall that a couple of weeks ago, Governor Fayose openly declared his intention to contest the 2019 presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The declaration jolted some people who started saying it was not yet the turn of somebody from the Southern part of the country to seek the exalted position.