By Cosmas Omegoh A few weeks after security agents arrested some directors of the National Arts Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos, over alleged fraud, a can of worms has been opened about activities in the parastatal. Fresh facts revealed massive corrupt practices in the agency, with a competent source declaring that more than N500 million had been stolen between 2011 and this year. Daily Sun gathered that a forensic audit of the parastatal’s finances revealed large-scale financial haemorrhage, as funds were stolen through award of bogus contracts and purchase of equipment, among others. One of the most recent allegations of funds’ diversion was the failure to remit money realised from the rental of the National Arts Theatre by the organisers of the Lagos @ 50 event. It was gathered that organisers of the event had booked and used the main bowl of the National Arts Theatre, where the activities marking Lagos’ 50th anniversary held between May 23 and 27, 2017. The source said over N5 million, being proceeds from the rental, was not accounted for. He further alleged that the money was collected in advance before a new chief executive officer of the agency assumed duty. According to the source, the officer who struck the deal had insisted that the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture directed that the National Arts Theatre be given to the organisers free even when the facility was fully paid for. Another source close to Daily Sun equally alleged that there were unclear dealings in the recent contract agreement the National Arts Theatre entered into with a brewing company. The contract document reads in part: “A lease of a part of the National Theatre premises known as Abe-Igi Drinking Arena for a term of three years commencing on Ist day of September 2016 yielding and paying during the said term the rent of N8 million net of all the tax per annum.” It said that the brewing company involved would pay in advance N24 million. The source cliamed that the then management of the theatre brought the date forward by five months, thereby giving the impression that the agreement was to start running five months after the signing of the agreement. “The change in date was deliberate. By that, five months were clearly omitted. Going by the contract, each month, the sum of N666,667 was supposed to accrue to the agency. By omitting five months, those who managed the theatre diverted the sum of N3.3 million.” It was gathered that the unaccounted money was laundered by a certain brand consulting outfit, which kept 30 per cent of the money, while the remaining 70 per cent was shared. Similarly, one of the officials of the Amalgamated Union of Corporations, Civil Service, Technical and Recreation Service Employees (AUCCTRSE), National Arts Theatre chapter, showed our correspondents a petition, AUP/BS/COR/09/15, dated December 15, 2015, which the union forwarded to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, alleging corrupt practices at the National Arts Theatre. He regretted that the ministry has not reacted to the allegations the union raised. In the petition, jointly signed by eight officials, led by the branch chairman, Mr. Dayo Akogun, AUCCTRSE alleged a series of financial improprieties perpetrated by former managers of the agency. Among other things, it drew attention to the “Siphoning of N10.1 million from the National Theatre via a fictitious Round Table Stakeholders’ Conference, which purportedly held in Abuja between November 13 and 14, 2009.” The union said: “The N10.1 million was prepared through a National Theatre expenses statement/payment voucher PVNO: NT/OC/CONF/155 dated 02/11/2009” and credited to one of the officials of the agency in Abuja. It listed other allegations of corruption at the National Arts Theatre to include fraudulent and highly compromised contracts awards, bloated contracts for various items, bloated purchase of sound equipment to the tune of N118 million, bogus contract to the tune of N63 million for the filing of halls 1 and 2 as well as contract for the supply of lighting equipment for the halls to the tune of N135 million, among others. The recent allegation of corruption at the parastatal came barely two weeks after four top management staff were, on October 11, 2017, arrested for questioning by operatives of the Special Presidential Investigative Panel on the Recovery of Public Property. Daily Sun was told that the accused persons have been released on bail but might be charged to court soon. He said the accused persons have been told to stay away from their offices so as not to jeopardise investigation being carried out by the agency. When contacted, a member of management of the theatre said whatever things were being complained of happened before the current leadership assumed office.