By Azoma Chikwe In pursuit of its corporate social responsibility, the Nigerian Breweries(NB) Plc has donated a fully equipped clinic, medical equipment and 100KVA generator  to the Nigeria Immigration Service, Ikoyi, Lagos State. Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Breweries Plc. Mr. Johan Doyer, who spoke through the Public Relations Advisor, Nigerian Breweries, Mr Kufre Ekanem at the commissioning expressed fulfilment that the project was completed and handed over. He said the initiative was executed in line with the company’s philosophy of Winning with Nigeria, the company identifies with the vision and mission of key stakeholders in the Nigerian project. “This philosophy has guided the relationships we have nurtured and the partnerships we have built within and outside government, its agencies and parastatals,” he said. “In the last ten years,” he continued,  “we have shared the vision of safer roads in Nigeria with the Federal Road Safety Corps through our Don’t Drink and Drive campaign. We continue to work with the Nigeria Customs Service in its drive to improve government earnings in Nigeria with our contribution to overall GDP by way of excise payments. Our philosophy of Winning with Nigeria has also seen us contribute security patrol vehicles to the Nigeria Police Force and diverse support to the Nigerian Army by way of annual sports sponsorship, among others. “We have executed similar initiatives in the field of Health, Education, youth empowerment and talent development for other stakeholder groups. In a few weeks we will gather together to identify the 2017 Maltina Teacher of the Year. This is initiative which identifies, motivates and rewards exemplary teachers in Nigeria is another part of our educational contribution to the development of our nation. This is in addition to the donation of fully built and equipped classroom blocks to several communities across Nigeria. “Our vision in Nigerian Breweries is to be world class in every aspect of our operations, this we have also translated to our interactions with our operating environment, aiding it to develop to meet the developmental aspiration of the government and people of Nigeria. “As an Operating Company of Heineken, the world’s most international beer company, our operations require a huge traffic of personnel into and outside Nigeria. As a net exporter of talents within the Heineken world, our activities also involve frequent transfer of our people to different parts of the world. In this regard, the cooperation we get from the Nigeria Immigration Service as Nigeria’s gate keepers is a critical part of our overall success on an annual basis. We want to say thank you for the support we receive and continue to receive from you. “As we commission this newly constructed and furnished clinic and a 100KVA generator, we reiterate our support for your vision to be  a modern, effective and efficient immigration service , manned by well trained and motivated workforce. We hope that this gesture will contribute to the overall welfare of the men and officers of the Nigeria Immigration Service as you work to strengthen the security and prosperity of Nigeria through proactive, efficient migration management,” he said. Speaking on behalf of the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Immigration Service, Assistant Comptroller-General of immigration, Zone A, Lagos, Mr Ishaku Hamad, thanked Nigerian Breweries for the kind gesture and pledged that the clinic will be used for the service of humanity. Bottom of Form