By Christy Anyanwu Eagle’s Club in Surulere, Lagos, was recently packed with Singles, married, divorcees and Separated couples who came to hear the good news about building a solid and godly relationship. The program, with theme: “Unlocking Deadlocks In Marriage” was the second edition of University of Marriage conference 2017, organized by Rose of Sharon Glorious Ministry International (ROSGMI). Its speakers included Rev, Funke Felix-Adejumo, of Agape Christian Ministry, co-founder and Pastor at Daystar Christian Centre, Nike Adeyemi and the founding and senior pastors of Grace Family International Churches, Rev. Yinka and Deola Ojo. Others were former governor of Ondo State and wife, Olusegun and Olukemi Mimiko and the former First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs. Abimbola Fashola and General Overseer of the Trinity House Ministries International, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo. The convener, Mrs. Folorunso Alakija, Vice-Chairman of Famfa oil and Servant-Leader of ROSGMI, said God’s purpose concerning marriage remains the same throughout the ages; so that the man and the woman should live happily, raise Godly children and advance His kingdom on earth: “The devil knows this and tries to put marriages asunder. Lack of trust, impatience, communication breakdown, and disrespect should be avoided in marriages. God is still the author of marriages to be heaven on earth. No matter how far gone or bad the situation has become, when the prince of peace is invited into our hearts and homes, there will be full restoration.” She also noted that finance has a lofty role to play in a marriage. She warned women to stay clear of the Aso-Ebi syndrome: “With time people will not bring Aso-Ebi to you. Aso-ebi is like bondage. You can make it a new-year resolution and don’t go living above your means. Maximize your resources and ask the Holy Spirit to guide you on how to invest. Godliness with contentment is great gain.” Felix-Adejumo implored women to be submissive, dress appropriately and improves herself while their spouse is moving up in his career. She said to succeed in marriage couples would have to graduate from the spirit of patience to endurance and long suffering. She said marriage is about building, blending and bonding. To the singles, she emphasized that “Baby Mama” and premarital sex is pervasion: “If you allow any man to sleep with you before marriage you will lose because he may decide not to marry you again and don’t marry a man because of what he has.” Adeyemi harped on the place of forgiveness and prayers as a couple: “The key of forgiveness will work wonders for you and you’ve got to understand the spiritual dimension of marriage and love”. Yinka and Deola Ojo stressed the need for couples to invest in their sexual experience. They admonished that couple should have a pure heart and be quick to forgive: “Good marriage is when two forgivers are living together. Develop the fruit of the spirit, develop godly character of Christ.” Mimiko ssaid: “I resisted coming for this conference but my wife employed all sorts of tricks to get me here. I have been married for 27 years; I can say that I feel blessed for being part of this conference and look forward to attend next time.”