From: Clement Adeyi, Osogbo Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State has reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to education development in the state. The governor expressed his commitment to maintain his administration’s stance as a role model in school infrastructure development. He expressed confidence that his government would not be deterred by the current socio-economic challenges confronting the state in its efforts to sustain  the school infrastructure development. Aregbesola stated this, on Tuesday, while inspecting on-going renovations  at Ifetedo Government Middle school, Ifetedo Government High Suchool, An-sarudeen Government Middle School and Garage-Olode Government Middle and High school, all in Ife-South Local Government Area of the state. The governor promised to invest a larger chunk of the state’s resources in education and improve the literacy rate in the state. He expressed satisfaction at the pace of work done so far, saying the completion of the projects would complement his government’s efforts in turning around education in the state. Aregbesola said his administration had done and would continue to do the needful to reposition the education sector which, he said, remains the bedrock of the society’s all round growth and development. He said that the ongoing school infrastructure ‎development in every nook and cranny of the state portrayed his administration’s poise to   revolutionalise the education sector. “Though there are challenges on our collective economies as states and nation, nothing would deter us from accomplishing our mission to build a new man through the provision of quality education, but to turn Osun to a pacesetter in the education sector,” he said. “We have invested heavily in the education sector and we are not relenting on this gesture to ensure that quality and functional education is given to every child in the state. “It is in view of this that our government has continued to do the needful, not minding the present economic challenges as it is known that education remains the bedrock of socio-economic and political development of any state or nation,” he added.