Speakers have now been confirmed for the inaugural edition of the Tourism Summit 2017 organised by the umbrella body of travel writers in the country, the Association of Nigerian Journalists and Writers of Tourism (ANJET), in partnership with the Southern Sun Hotel Ikoyi, Lagos. A statement by the body said the summit slated for November 2 at the expansive Ikoyi-based hospitality establishment on Alfred Rewane Road, is part of activities marking the World Tourism Day (WTD), that was celebrated globally last September 27. While Chief Executive Officer of CELTRON Nigeria Limited, Dapo Adelagan has been lined up to deliver the keynote address on the theme of the seminar, which is: ‘Tourism – A tool for Sustainable Development,’ same as the UNWTO’s WTD global theme. The other speakers include: Kofo Adeleke of the Community Conservation Development Initiative (CDDI), Dr. Olatunji Babatola of the Department of Geography, University of Lagos, Akoka, Yaba. The Chief Executive Officer of media and public relations firm, Chain Reactions, Israel Opayemi, completes the roll call of distinguished speakers at the Tourism Summit 2017. According to ANJET, the summit is part of its commitment towards broadening discourse on the Nigeria tourism agenda, its potential as well as challenges, just as it also added that as a major stakeholder, its ‘responsibility transcends reporting the industry.’ “We lend our voice to issues bordering on the development and promotion of the sector which is essentially why we have also created different platforms in the course of the year to engage with both the private and public sector operators on ways to drive growth and progress in the industry. “Hence we annually organise event around the WTD, but this year we have decided to make the celebration much bigger by partnering with the Southern Sun Ikoyi, which is one of the leading international hotel brands in Nigeria as well as other stakeholders in the industry, including the government agencies which are expected to support this initiative in different ways,” read the statement. Notable figures expected to grace the epoch-making event include: The Minister of Culture and Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Director General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, Lagos State Acting Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism, Mrs. Adebimpe Akinsola, the Director General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Mr. Folorunsho Folarin-Coker, the Director General, Nigeria Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (NIHOTOUR), Mrs. Chika Balogun. Others include: The President of the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), Alhaji Saleh Rabo, the President of the Nigeria Association of Tour Operators (NATOP), Mr. Nkereuwem Onung, and that of the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA), Bankole Bernard as well as students, members of the Diplomatic Corps, media practitioners, and a host of other dignitaries from the private and public sector organisations in the country. The one day seminar would also feature a host of other related activities such as arts and craft exhibition, music, dance drama, spoken word presentations, selected to showcase products that make Nigeria tourism unique. ANJET is an organisation, which has been in existence in Nigeria for about three decades and is an affiliate of the global body, FIJET and a member of the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN).