Propel, the trademark and brand name of Propetrol Limited, one of Nigeria’s emerging downstream players, has opened a new service station at the popular Trans Amadi Industrial Layout Road in Rumubiakani, Port Harcourt River State. The newest addition, which was commissioned recently, brings to four the number of Propel Service Stations in Port Harcourt and 19 across its retail network in Lagos, Ondo, Cross River and Edo States. According to Mr. Harry Ebohon, the Chief Executive Officer of Propetrol Limited, the launch of another Propel Service Station in Port Harcourt is a strategic step taken to enable the brand expand its excellent service delivery and product quality to more customers in the state. “With the new retail outlet at Trans Amadi, we would be fuelling the trust of more customers in River States as we have done with thousands of customers from our other existing stations, since establishing our footsteps in the state. The people of Port Harcourt deserve to be served right, with the assurance that what they buy is what they get”, he said. “We plan to continue to expand our retail business, increase our bulk supply customer base and redefine the Nigerian bunkering industry. Our heavy retail presence in the South-South and the South-West is strategic. Although, the efficiency and service delivery gaps in these markets were huge when we set out, we have done well in correcting these anomalies and are now shifting our focus to the northern market in the nearest future. We hope our value proposition and core values as an organization will continue to provide us the foothold we need to succeed in the markets and industry segments where we offer our goods and services”, Ebohon added. Propetrol which has been in business for over 15 years, started off as a haulage company, moving products for the oil majors? However, having observed the inefficiencies in the retail market, made a bold decision to make a foray in the petroleum products retail marketing space to contribute to bridging the fuel supply gap in the Nigerian energy market.  Over the years, the company has further expanded into other sectors in the downstream industry and is now a market leader in the maritime and bunkering service niche. Ebohon said Propel was never deterred by foreign dominance in the Nigerian bunkering space, but was rather determined to outperform them in delivering critical time-dependent bunkers to clients across the coast of the West African sub-region, in line with internationally acceptable best practices.  Propetrol Limited is committed to sound Environmental, Health, Safety, Security and Quality (EHSSQ) practices in all its operations. Its focus is on ensuring that the lowest incidence rate is sustained in its operations for both the employees and the customers. It also ensures that all products and services comply with international standards and industry best practices. Hence, its stringent standards for the achievement, sustenance and effective monitoring of performance through the implementation of an integrated management system, audits, evaluations and controls designed to cater to the key elements of Quality Assurance (as required by ISO 9001:2015).