Stories by Charles Nwaoguji The Institute of Public Analysts of Nigeria (IPAN) in collaboration with the U.S Pharmacopeial Convention (USP) Nigeria, have trained laboratory managers to become experts in laboratory and auditing processes. The four-days training titled ‘‘laboratory management systems training towards ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation’’ held in Ikeja, Lagos, was informed by the poor performance of laboratory managers in the country as well as the need to save the country from fake, substandard and adulterated laboratory products. Acting Registrar of IPAN, Mr. Durosinlorun Abdusalam, said IPAN trains, examines, registers and regulates the practice of public analysts and analytical laboratories in Nigeria as part its core mandate. He stated that the institute organises 2-Day training twice in April and November every year in the last two decades. Abdusalam noted that those trainings are essentially for members with the objective targeted at refreshing and acquainting them with new knowledge and skills in the practice of public analysis. “I therefore use this opportunity to inform participants that another of such training will hold in Kaduna on November 7 and 8” The institute’s laboratory services department equally offers hands-on training on equipment and analysis. All these are geared towards building capacity. Apart from the written examinations in September every year for membership, the institute is at the verge of  conducting accreditation for ISO 17024,  and personnel certification. Hopefully, this would hold in December and January 2018”. Human capacity development takes the front burner in the Institute’s scheme and we are becoming renowned for our consistency. Why this training is unique, is  the fact that for the first time, we partnered an international organisation and a development partner ;USP Convention to organise a week long programme for the benefit of individual members, and the nation at large,”he said. Every participants will be rewarded with a borderless certificate on laboratory quality management systems particularly those who succeed in the examination at the end of the course”. The Chief of Party USP Nigeria, Dr. Chimezie Anyakora, said USP is an organisation focus on best quality of medicines in Nigeria adding that his organization has been working in Nigeria for almost five years now. “We support National Agency for Foods and Drugs Administration Control (NAFDAC), we support Ministry of Health and drug manufactures including IPAN, to ensure that quality medicines are available for patients in Nigeria”. “Many people do not know that medicines are not effective not because they are not well produced but because they are not well handled instead of the drugs to cure diseases they will cause more harm to the patients therefore, proper handling of drugs are every important”. “We partner with NAFDAC to organise trainings for drug sellers and other organisations with the aim to ensure it is only those who are qualified will handle medicines to reduce fake and adulterated medicines in Nigeria.”